Pokťdex

Contents

How to Use the Pokťdex

6

Pokťmon Skills

15

Starter Pokťmon

020

Bulbasaur / Ivysaur / Venusaur 022 

Chikorita / Bayleef / Meganium 024 

Treecko / Grovyle / Sceptile 026 

Turtwig / Grotle / Torterra

028 

Snivy / Servine / Serperior Chespin / Quilladin

030 

/ Chesnaught Rowlet / Dartrix / Decidueye

032 

/ Decidueye (Legend)

034 

Grookey / Thwackey / Rillaboom 036  Sprigatito / Floragato

/ Meowscarada Charmander / Charmeleon

038 

/ Charizard

040 

Cyndaquil / Quilava / Typhlosion

/ Typhlosion (Legend)

042 

Torchic / Combusken / Blaziken 044  Chimchar / Monferno

/ Infernape

046 

Tepig / Pignite / Emboar

048 

Fennekin / Braixen / Delphox 050 

Litten / Torracat / Incineroar 052 

Scorbunny / Raboot / Cinderace 054 

Fuecoco / Crocalor / Skeledirge 056 

Squirtle / Wartortle / Blastoise 058 

Totodile / Croconaw / Feraligatr 060  Mudkip / Marshtomp

/ Swampert

062 

Piplup / Prinplup / Empoleon 064  Oshawott / Dewott / Samurott

/ Samurott (Legend)

066 

Froakie / Frogadier / Greninja 068 

Popplio / Brionne / Primarina 070 

Sobble / Drizzile / Inteleon

072 

Quaxly / Quaxwell / Quaquaval 074  Pichu / Pikachu / Raichu

/ Raichu (Island) Eevee / Vaporeon / Jolteon / Flareon / Espeon / Umbreon

076 

/ Leafeon / Glaceon / Sylveon 079 

Bug Type Families

086

Blipbug / Dottler / Orbeetle

086 

Caterpie / Metapod / Butterfree 088 

Grubbin / Charjabug / Vikavolt 090 

Scatterbug / Spewpa / Vivillon 092 

Sewaddle / Swadloon

/ Leavanny Venipede / Whirlipede

094 

/ Scolipede Weedle / Kakuna / Beedrill Wurmple / Silcoon / Beautifly / Cascoon / Dustox Combee / Vespiquen Cutiefly / Ribombee

096  098 
100  103  105 

Dwebble / Crustle

106 

Joltik / Galvantula

108 

Karrablast / Escavalier Kricketot / Kricketune

109  111 

Larvesta / Volcarona

112 

Ledyba / Ledian Nymble / Lokix Paras / Parasect Pineco / Forretress

114  115  117  118 

Rellor / Rabsca

120 

Shelmet / Accelgor Spinarak / Ariados Surskit / Masquerain Tarountula / Spidops

121  123  124  126 

Venonat / Venomoth

127 

Wimpod / Golisopod

129 

Yanma / Yanmega

130 

Burmy / Wormadam / Mothim 132 

Nincada / Ninjask / Shedinja 134 

Scyther / Scizor / Kleavor

136 

Durant

138 

Heracross

139 

Pinsir

139 

Shuckle

140 

Volbeat and Illumise

141 

Dark Type Families

142

Deino / Zweilous / Hydreigon 142  Impidimp / Morgrem

/ Grimmsnarl

144 

Pawniard / Bisharp / Kingambit 146  Zigzagoon (Urban) / Linoone (Urban) / Obstagoon 148 

Houndour / Houndoom

150 

Inkay / Malamar

152 

Maschiff / Mabosstiff

153 

Meowth / Persian (Tropical) Murkrow / Honchkrow Nickit / Thievul Poochyena / Mightyena Purrloin / Liepard

155  156  158  159  161 

Qwilfish (Dark Waters) / Overqwil 162 

Rattata / Raticate (Island)

164 

Scraggy / Scrafty

165 

Sneasel / Weavile

167 

Vullaby / Mandibuzz

168 

Zorua / Zoroark

170 

Absol

171 

Sableye

172 

Dragon Type Families Axew / Fraxure / Haxorus Bagon / Shelgon / Salamence Dratini / Dragonair / Dragonite Dreepy / Drakloak / Dragapult Frigibax / Arctibax / Baxcalibur Gible / Gabite / Garchomp Goomy / Sliggoo / Goodra Jangmo-o / Hakamo-o / Kommo-o Swablu / Altaria Cyclizar Druddigon Tatsugiri

174 174  176  178  180  182  184  186 
188  190  192  192  193 

Contents

2

Electric Type Families Elekid / Electabuzz / Electivire Magnemite / Magneton / Magnezone Mareep / Flaaffy / Ampharos Pawmi / Pawmo / Pawmot Shinx / Luxio / Luxray Tynamo / Eelektrik / Eelektross Blitzle / Zebstrika Electrike / Manectric Helioptile / Heliolisk Tadbulb / Bellibolt Toxel / Toxtricity Voltorb / Electrode Voltorb / Electrode (Antique) Wattrel / Kilowattrel Yamper / Boltund Arctozolt and Dracozolt Dedenne Emolga Morpeko Oricorio Pachirisu Pincurchin Plusle and Minun Rotom Togedemaru
Fairy Type Families Cleffa / Clefairy / Clefable Flabťbť / Floette / Florges Tinkatink / Tinkatuff / Tinkaton Togepi / Togetic / Togekiss Fidough / Dachsbun Milcery / Alcremie Snubbull / Granbull Spritzee / Aromatisse Swirlix / Slurpuff Comfey

194 194 
196  198  200  202  204  206  208  209  211  212  214  215  217  218  220  221  221  223  223  224  225  226  227  228 
230 230  232  234  236  238  240  241  243  244  245 

Fighting Type Families

246

Machop / Machoke / Machamp 246 

Mankey / Primeape / Annihilape 248 

Timburr / Gurdurr / Conkeldurr 250 

Clobbopus / Grapploct

252 

Crabrawler / Crabominable Farfetch'd (Massive Leek)

254 

/ Sirfetch'd

255 

Makuhita / Hariyama

257 

Meditite / Medicham

258 

Mienfoo / Mienshao

260 

Pancham / Pangoro

261 

Riolu / Lucario

263 

Sneasel (Badlands) / Sneasler 264  Tyrogue / Hitmonlee

/ Hitmonchan / Hitmontop

266 

Falinks

268 

Hawlucha

269 

Passimian

270 

Sawk and Throh

271 

Tauros (Aqua Breed)

272 

Tauros (Blaze Breed)

273 

Tauros (Combative)

273 

Fire Type Families Fletchling / Fletchinder / Talonflame Magby / Magmar / Magmortar Cubone / Marowak (Volcanic) Darumaka / Darmanitan Growlithe / Arcanine
Growlithe / Arcanine (Ancient) Litleo / Pyroar Numel / Camerupt Pansear / Simisear Ponyta / Rapidash Sizzlipede / Centiskorch Slugma / Magcargo Vulpix / Ninetales Charcadet / Armarouge / Ceruledge Heatmor Oricorio Torkoal
Turtonator

274
274  276  278  280  281  283  284  286  287  289  290  292  293 
295  297  297  298  299 

Flying Type Families Rookidee / Corvisquire / Corviknight
Noibat / Noivern Bombirdier Cramorant Flamigo

300
300  302  303  304  305 

Ghost Type Families

306

Duskull / Dusclops / Dusknoir 306 

Gastly / Haunter / Gengar

308 

Litwick / Lampent / Chandelure 310 

Corsola (Dead Seas) / Cursola 312 

Drifloon / Drifblim

314 

Greavard / Houndstone

315 

Misdreavus / Mismagius

317 

Phantump / Trevenant

318 

Pumpkaboo / Gourgeist

320 

Sandygast / Palossand

321 

Shuppet / Banette

323 

Sinistea / Polteageist

324 

Yamask / Cofagrigus

326 

Dhelmise

327 

Mimikyu

327 

Oricorio

328 

Spiritomb

329 

Grass Type Families

330

Bellsprout / Weepinbell

/ Victreebel

330 

Bounsweet / Steenee / Tsareena 332 

Budew / Roselia / Roserade 334 

Hoppip / Skiploom / Jumpluff 336 

Seedot / Nuzleaf / Shiftry

338 

Smoliv / Dolliv / Arboliva Oddish / Gloom / Vileplume

340 

/ Bellossom

342 

Bramblin / Brambleghast

345 

Cacnea / Cacturne

346 

Capsakid / Scovillain

348 

Cherubi / Cherrim

349 

Cottonee / Whimsicott

351 

Ferroseed / Ferrothorn

352 

Fomantis / Lurantis

354 

Foongus / Amoonguss

355 

Gossifleur / Eldegoss

357 

Morelull / Shiinotic

358 

Pansage / Simisage

360 

Poltchageist / Sinistcha

361 

Shroomish / Breloom

363 

Skiddo / Gogoat

364 

Snover / Abomasnow

366 

Sunkern / Sunflora

367 

Tangela / Tangrowth

369 

Applin / Flapple / Appletun

/ Dipplin / Hydrapple Exeggcute / Exeggutor

370 

/ Exeggutor (Island) Petilil / Lilligant

373 

/ Lilligant (High Mountain)

375 

Carnivine

377 

Maractus

378 

Tropius

378 

Contents

3

Ground Type Families

380

Rhyhorn / Rhydon / Rhyperior 380 

Sandile / Krokorok / Krookodile 382 

Trapinch / Vibrava / Flygon

384 

Teddiursa / Ursaring / Ursaluna

/ Ursaluna (Blood Moon)

386 

Baltoy / Claydol

388 

Cubone / Marowak

390 

Diglett / Dugtrio

391 

Diglett / Dugtrio (Volcanic)

393 

Drilbur / Excadrill

394 

Gligar / Gliscor

396 

Golett / Golurk

397 

Hippopotas / Hippowdon

399 

Mudbray / Mudsdale

400 

Phanpy / Donphan

402 

Sandshrew / Sandslash

403 

Silicobra / Sandaconda

405 

Toedscool / Toedscruel Yamask (Stone Ruins) /

406 

/ Runerigus

408 

Stunfisk

410 

Stunfisk (Iron-rich)

411 

Ice Type Families

412

Mime Jr. / Mr. Mime (Icy Mountain)

/ Mr. Rime

412 

Spheal / Sealeo / Walrein Swinub / Piloswine

414 

/ Mamoswine

416 

Vanillite / Vanillish / Vanilluxe 418 

Cetoddle / Cetitan

420 

Cubchoo / Beartic Darumaka

422 

/ Darmanitan (Icy Mountain) Sandshrew

423 

/ Sandslash (Icy Mountain)

425 

Smoochum / Jynx

426 

Snom / Frosmoth

428 

Vulpix / Ninetales (Icy Mountain) 429  Bergmite / Avalugg

/ Avalugg (Mountainous)

432 

Snorunt / Glalie / Froslass

434 

Cryogonal

436 

Delibird

437 

Eiscue

437 

Normal Type Families

438

Happiny / Chansey / Blissey 438 

Igglybuff / Jigglypuff / Wigglytuff 440  Lillipup / Herdier / Stoutland 442  Pidgey / Pidgeotto / Pidgeot 444  Pidove / Tranquill / Unfezant 446  Pikipek / Trumbeak / Toucannon448 

Porygon / Porygon 2 / Porygon-Z450 

Slakoth / Vigoroth / Slaking

452 

Starly / Staravia / Staraptor

454 

Whismur / Loudred / Exploud 456 

Aipom / Ambipom Bidoof / Bibarel

458  460 

Buneary / Lopunny Bunnelby / Diggersby Deerling / Sawsbuck

461  463  464 

Doduo / Dodrio

466 

Dunsparce / Dudunsparce

467 

Girafarig / Farigiraf

469 

Glameow / Purugly Hoothoot / Noctowl Lechonk / Oinkologne

470  472  473 

Lickitung / Lickilicky

475 

Meowth / Persian

476 

Minccino / Cinccino

478 

Munchlax / Snorlax

479 

Patrat / Watchog Rattata / Raticate Rufflet / Braviary Sentret / Furret

481  482  484  485 

Skitty / Delcatty Skwovet / Greedent Spearow / Fearow

487  488  490 

Stantler / Wyrdeer

491 

Stufful / Bewear Taillow / Swellow

493  494 

Tandemaus / Maushold

496 

Wooloo / Dubwool Yungoos / Gumshoos Zigzagoon / Linoone

497  499  500 

Zorua / Zoroark (Icy Mountain) 502 

Audino

504 

Bouffalant

505 

Castform

505 

Chatot

506 

Ditto

507 

Drampa

508 

Farfetch'd

509 

Furfrou

509 

Kangaskhan

510 

Kecleon

511 

Komala

512 

Miltank

513 

Tauros Oranguru
Smeargle Spinda Squawkabilly Zangoose

513  514 
515  516  517  517 

Poison Type Families

518

Nidoran / Nidorina / Nidoqueen 518 

Nidoran / Nidorino / Nidoking 520 

Zubat / Golbat / Crobat

522 

Croagunk / Toxicroak

524 

Ekans / Arbok

526 

Grimer / Muk

527 

Grimer / Muk (Oil Polluted)

529 

Gulpin / Swalot

530 

Mareanie / Toxapex

532 

Salandit / Salazzle

533 

Shroodle / Grafaiai

535 

Skorupi / Drapion

536 

Skrelp / Dragalge

538 

Stunky / Skuntank

539 

Trubbish / Garbodor

541 

Wooper (High Ground) / Clodsire 542 

Koffing / Weezing

/ Weezing (Heavy Pollution)

544 

Slowpoke / Slowbro

/ Slowking (Spice Diet)

546 

Seviper

548 

Psychic Type Families

550

Abra / Kadabra / Alakazam

550 

Gothita / Gothorita / Gothitelle 552 

Hatenna / Hattrem / Hatterene 554 

Solosis / Duosion / Reuniclus 556  Ralts / Kirlia / Gardevoir

/ Gallade

558 

Chingling / Chimecho

561 

Drowzee / Hypno

562 

Elgyem / Beheeyem

564 

Flittle / Espathra

565 

Mime Jr. / Mr. Mime

567 

Munna / Musharna

568 

Natu / Xatu

570 

Ponyta / Rapidash (Forest Glade) 571 

Rufflet / Braviary (Tundra)

573 

Spoink / Grumpig Woobat / Swoobat

574  576 

Wynaut / Wobbuffet

577 

Espurr / Meowstic

579 

Indeedee

580 

Oricorio

581 

Sigilyph

582 

Unown

583 

Contents

4

Rock Type Families Geodude / Graveler / Golem Geodude / Graveler / Golem (Iron-rich)

584 584 
586 

Larvitar / Pupitar / Tyranitar 588 

Nacli / Naclstack / Garganacl 590  Roggenrola / Boldore / Gigalith 592  Rolycoly / Carkol / Coalossal 594 

Amaura / Aurorus

596 

Anorith / Armaldo

598 

Archen / Archeops

599 

Binacle / Barbaracle

601 

Bonsly / Sudowoodo

602 

Cranidos / Rampardos

604 

Glimmet / Glimmora

605 

Kabuto / Kabutops

607 

Lileep / Cradily

608 

Nosepass / Probopass

610 

Omanyte / Omastar

611 

Shieldon / Bastiodon

613 

Tyrunt / Tyrantrum

614 

Rockruff / Lycanroc

616 

Aerodactyl

618 

Carbink

619 

Klawf

619 

Lunatone and Solrock

621 

Minior

622 

Stonjourner

623 

Steel Type Families Aron / Lairon / Aggron

624 624 

Beldum / Metang / Metagross 626  Goomy / Sliggoo

/ Goodra (Iron-rich)

628 

Honedge / Doublade / Aegislash 630 

Klink / Klang / Klinklang

632 

Bronzor / Bronzong

634 

Cufant / Copperajah

636 

Duraludon / Archaludon

637 

Gimmighoul / Gholdengo Meowth (Cold Climate) / Perrserker

639  640 

Onix / Steelix

642 

Varoom / Revavroom

643 

Klefki

644 

Mawile

645 

Orthworm

646 

Skarmory

647 

Water Type Families Azurill / Marill / Azumarill Horsea / Seadra / Kingdra Lotad / Lombre / Ludicolo Tympole / Palpitoad / Seismitoad Poliwag / Poliwhirl / Poliwrath / Politoed Arrokuda / Barraskewda Barboach / Whiscash Basculin / Basculegion Buizel / Floatzel Carvanha / Sharpedo Chewtle / Drednaw Chinchou / Lanturn Clauncher / Clawitzer Corphish / Crawdaunt Dewpider / Araquanid Ducklett / Swanna Feebas / Milotic Finizen / Palafin Finneon / Lumineon Frillish / Jellicent Goldeen / Seaking Krabby / Kingler Magikarp / Gyarados Mantyke / Mantine Panpour / Simipour Psyduck / Golduck Remoraid / Octillery Seel / Dewgong Shellder / Cloyster Shellos / Gastrodon Staryu / Starmie Tentacool / Tentacruel
Tirtouga / Carracosta
Wailmer / Wailord Wiglett / Wugtrio Wingull / Pelipper Wooper / Quagsire Clamperl / Huntail / Gorebyss Slowpoke / Slowbro / Slowking
Alomomola
Arctovish and Dracovish Bruxish Corsola
Dondozo
Lapras Luvdisc Pyukumuku Qwilfish
Relicanth Veluza Wishiwashi

648 648  650  652 
654 
656  659  660  662  663  665  666  668  669  671  672  674  675  677  678  680  681  683  684  686  687  689  690  692  693  695  696  698  699  701  702  704  705  708  710  712  713  714  715  716  717  718  718  719  720  721  722 

Pokťmon Passives

723

Pokťmon Moves

730

Proficiency List

750

Types Lists

750

Other Lists

760

Signature Moves

776

Indexes (Currently Wrong)

Alphabetical list of Pokťmon 784

Pokťmon by Types

791

Pokťmon by Egg Groups

801

Pokťmon by Habitat

Forthcoming

Join the PTA3 Discord Server: https://discord.gg/UgWJaH8

Contents

5

Hello there! Welcome to the world of Pokťmon: Tabletop Adventures!

How to Use the Pokťdex
This Pokťdex book is for both Game Masters and Players. While GMs have free reign over this book and its contents, it is advised that players only explore this guide when they've successfully captured a Pokťmon, used their Pokťdex on a Pokťmon, or if they are a Researcher. If they are a Researcher they may freely explore the book as they please. GMs will use this book to access all Pokťmon that they will control that are under the control of NPC trainers, or the wild Pokťmon that appear in the world that players explore.

The following pages will cover what each Pokťmon entry will look like and detail the meaning of each part of an entry. Each Pokťmon has something special about them. From elemental type, to size, to the hundreds of abilities and techniques they might employ, each Pokťmon can be a unique addition to a player's roster.
Pokťmon sheets for players to keep track of their Pokťmon partners are located in the Player's Handbook with player character sheets.

While these entries are suggested to use, a GM can modify any Pokťmon's stats, types, abilities, appearance, move sets, or anything else really. GMs should modify Pokťmon owned by non-player trainers slightly, as a trainer influences their Pokťmon, but should be wary of overspecializing a wild Pokťmon. Players are always one lucky Pokť Ball throw away from capturing a Pokťmon you created.

How to Use: Pokťdex

Game Masters:

While the Pokťmon Tabletop Adventures Pokťdex de-

tails Pokťmon from the video games series, it should be

noted that less than 0.002% of the real world has been rep-

resented and explored in video games, meaning this list is

not complete and it may be up to you to fill out some

space with homebrewed regional variants, or entirely

homebrewed Pokťmon yourself. As with any homebrewed

material, it's important to give players heads up before-

hand and be ready to supply players with what they need to interact or use homebrewed Pokťmon.

Join the PTA3 Discord Server: https://discord.gg/UgWJaH8

6

Pikachu

Electric - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Charm (+1 Defense), Nasty Plot (+1 Special Attack), Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Lightning Rod (Any foe's ranged Electric-type attacks within 25ft or any adjacent foe's Electrictype attacks are negated and drawn to you. Your Special Attack is +2 until the end of your next turn whenever you negate an Electric-type attack.), Static (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Paralyze the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)
Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.
Electro Ball - Ranged(15ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. Electro Ball can only be used against targets slower than you.
Iron Tail - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. Iron Tail has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

You can't have Pokťmon Tabletop Adventures without

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 4 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Forests / Urban Plants

the Pokťmon! Above is an example of what Pikachu's entry looks like. We'll go through each part here so players know what it means for all entries.

Evolution: Pichu

Pikachu

Thunder Stone Raichu,

Thunder Stone From Island habitat Island Raichu

Proficiencies: Electric / Psychic (Raichu Island) / Cutesy

Type

There are eighteen different Elemental Types in the

Family/Species Name

world of Pokťmon that are commonly separated into two archetypes; Physical and Special. The Physical Elemental

At the top of each page in the Pokťdex, each Pokťmon is listed as a part of a Species grouping. Individual stages of a

Types are Bug, Fighting, Flying, Ghost, Ground, Normal, Poison, Rock and Steel. The Special Elemental Types are Dark, Dragon, Electric, Fairy, Fire, Grass, Ice, Psychic and Water.

single Pokťmon's evolutionary line are not part of the same Species, but are part of the Species' family. When talking about a specific evolutionary line, or branched evolutionary tree, it is common to refer to the line or branch by the Species name of the first Stage of the line, but this is not always true. For example, to talk about the Pichu, Pikachu, and Raichu evolutionary line, you could call it the Pichu or the

Each Pokťmon belongs to a specific Elemental Type and some Pokťmon belong to two Elemental Types and can even change between them under different circumstances. Types affect how much damage a Pokťmon takes when hit by Attacks and are very important factors to keep track of while battling.

Pikachu evolutionary family. To refer to the Eevee, Jolteon,

Vaporeon, Flareon, Umbreon, Espeon, Glaceon and

Leafeon evolutionary branch you could call it the Eevee

evolutionary line.

Stat Passives are already added to each Pokťmon's
stats in the Pokťdex !!!

How to Use: Pokťdex

7

Useful Icons
Throughout the Pokťdex, Pokťmon entries will contain icons to signify different things. Many icons will have explanations right next to them, but most do not. Here's a bank of each icon you might find and what each of them mean.

Pokťmon Rarity in the Wild:
Pokťmon are not equal in population, some Pokťmon mass produce to try and survive predation, while others just live in large families that work together. Others never stray from comfort while others commonly swarm town marketplaces.

Pokťmon and Move Types: Bug Dark Dragon Electric Fairy Fighting Fire Flying Ghost

Grass Ground Ice Normal Poison Psychic Rock Steel Water

While these symbols indicate how common the family itself is, these symbols mainly denotate the first stage in a family. For example, the Magikarp family is common, but Gyarados is not. Still, the family is marked with a circle for common because of how ubiquitous Magikarp is.
Common - These Pokťmon are everywhere. They are so numerous that it's never surprising to encounter one. Most people just ignore them when encountered.
Uncommon - These Pokťmon are usually only found within their habitats. Even then they are never the most numerous family in a given area.
Rare - These families are a rare find and are often scarce in the habitats they are found in. While you might find a group of them in the wild, that's likely the only family group in the area.

Shiny - While unmarked, since any Pokťmon can be shiny, shiny Pokťmon are extremely rare individuals who are undistinguishable from the rest of their species on paper, but look different in color. While a tropical Meowth is gray instead of a cream white, it also has a different type and move set essentially making it a different Pokťmon species. Shiny Pokťmon just have a different appearance. Some shiny Pikachu, for example, are golden, but others are spotted and blue, while even more rare variations can be completely black.
Oddities - Whether it is an Alpha, a Totem, or a massive Titan, some Pokťmon are just built different. It is always a surprise to encounter such strange Pokťmon, but it is even stranger if anyone is able to actually capture and train them!

How to Use: Pokťdex

8

Means of Evolution:

Sun Stone - By getting bleached in the sun every-

When they do evolve, Pokťmon do not all evolve through the same methods. A vast majority of Pokťmon evolve through training, maturity, and mental health. Oth-

day for decades, eventually these stone take in a charge of solar power and convert into these spiked rocks. They're found in mountains.

ers require radioactive Evolution Stones. They're labeled

Thunder Stone - These stones are made when

below.

lightning strikes a single rock, causing them to hum softly.

These stones are usually found where thunderstorms are

common.

Natural Evolution - Natural evolution occurs when Pokťmon reach a point of maturity and growth and are happy with, at peace with, or even proud of the growth they've experienced. Usually after a moment of triumph, after being well fed, rested, and kept in general health for a

Water Stone - Water stones are made when the crushing weight of the ocean splits open a rock and the stone takes in the ocean's energy. It suddenly floats to the surface and will likely be found on a beach somewhere.

while, a Pokťmon will go through evolution.

Day - Pokťmon can only evolve during the day,

Sometimes, an adrenaline high will also trigger an evolu- usually being able to be in sunlight is important.

tion≠ it's not completely uncommon for a Pokťmon who is

Night - This means that a Pokťmon needs it to be

in good health to evolve in the middle of a powerful strike night for it to evolve. Sometimes being able to see the

or after surviving an attack that would have knocked it out. moon helps.

On the other hand, some Pokťmon who are in good enough health and in great distress may also suddenly evolve as a defense mechanism. Generally, these stressinduced evolutions can cause the Pokťmon to have trouble controlling its new found power if it wasn't ready to wield it.

Sex - Some Pokťmon evolutions can only be triggered when a species is a specific biological sex. These symbols for female or male will be paired with another icon to indicate a Pokťmon needing to be a specific sex to evolve.

When there are split evolutions or other variables to be considered when a Pokťmon evolves naturally, it will be mentioned next to the icon.

Special - Many Pokťmon will have this symbol paired with another icon. It means that the Pokťmon's evolution requires special attention because when it evolves,

something special might happen to determine how it

Dawn Stone - This evolution stone is created by mysterious energy that is absorbed into a stone with a

evolves, or maybe it only can evolve through a known method if a specific requirement is met.

semi-transparent shell. They're found on river beds.

Sometimes, Pokťmon who would usually only evolve

Dusk Stone - Dusk stones absorb dark energies from malicious forces near them, causing them to shine in eerie shades of black and purple. They're found in caves.

when exposed to an evolution stone spontaneously evolve when surrounded by certain environments. For example, a Magneton may evolve into Magnezone when surrounded by surges of static electricity in high elevations instead of

Fire Stone - These stones are the result of super- needing a Thunder Stone.

heated rock, instead of melting they solidify into an always

warm stone. They're most commonly found near volca-

noes.

Where are the Pokťmon gender ratios?

Ice Stone - In moments of extreme cold, these

While gender ratios exist in the core Pokťmon series, it's

stones snap and take in the cold around them, forming into not relevant in a tabletop setting. Unless strictly stated oth-

an always chilled white stone. They're most commonly

erwise, assume that there is an even distribution of sex for

found incased in solid ice.

both male and female of every species. Here are a couple

Leaf Stone - Rarely, when a tree grows directly into of examples and explanations.

stone, it can imbue a rock with its life force and create a

Salandit are evenly split for example for their sex being

Leaf Stone. These are most commonly found in forests.

male or female, however Salazzle is only ever female in al-

Moon Stone - Moons stones are not of this world; they are shattered pieces of meteorites that survived entry into the atmosphere. They're found on mountains near impact craters.

most all situations because the Salandit sex must be female to evolve at all. Chansey on the other hand is one-hundred percent female in the Pokťmon video games, but have no reason they can't be male. While a GM may assign a Chansey to female, there is little to stop them from using a pur-

Shiny Stone - These clear crystals are gifted with ple or red-shaded Chansey that is male.

mystical power from Pokťmon activity near them and give off a soft glow. They're found in meadows, usually.

In both scenarios, a GM can bend rules to be more like or less like the video games as they see fit. Talking to play-

ers help, too.

How to Use: Pokťdex

9

Size and Weight

Pokťmon Stats

The Size and Weight classes given for each Pokťmon

Pokťmon stats are identical to the stats that trainers

Species are averages determined by Pokťmon Researchers have, although they don't use their stats the same way

around the world. It is not uncommon to see Pokťmon who trainers do with Skills. There's Hit Points, Attack, Defense,

are up to heavier or larger from individual Pokťmon to the Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed.

next, but it would be unusual to see a human-sized Pichu, who on average is tiny. Use Pokťmon sizes to determine

Hit Points:

how feasible it is for a Pokťmon to be moving together with Unlike a trainer who always starts with the same 20 Hit

you through halls, tight caves, or while just walking down Points, Pokťmon Hit Points are variable from species to

the street together. Be sure to note their changes if they species. When a Pokťmon's HP is lowered to 0, it is uncon-

evolve as well. You, or maybe your GM if they already have, scious. If lowered to ≠100% max HP while the attacker has

can get specific on any Pokťmon's specific sizes and

lethal intent, the Pokťmon will have to make a death saving

weights. Otherwise, use sizes for signifying placement on a throw.

grid and weights mostly for feasibility of Pokťmon being carried around or a Pokťmon carrying a person around all day.
Pokťmon sizes vary from Tiny, to Small, to Medium, to Large, to Huge and finally, Gigantic. On a grid, both Small and Medium Pokťmon would take up one space, or a 5x5 ft. square. A Small Pokťmon may occupy a space with up to one other Medium or Small Pokťmon, or a human who is "Medium" in size. Large Pokťmon occupy 2x2 spaces or a 10x10 ft. square. Huge Pokťmon occupy 3x3 spaces or a 15x15 ft. square. Finally, Gigantic Pokťmon occupy at least 4x4 spaces or a 20x20 ft square. Tiny Pokťmon can be in the same space as anything else. For example, Wailord might occupy a 25x50 ft. space. Huge and Gigantic Pokťmon may also occupy stranger shapes than a square provided your GM gives you some house rulings and lets you know how many spaces your Huge or Gigantic Pokťmon take and how they may be placed on a board. An example of this might be a Steelix who occupies a space of 10x30 ft. but could snake back and forth on a grid.

Attack and Special Attack:
Like trainers, a Pokťmon's Attack and Special Attack has modifiers that are calculated the same way≠ the modifier is +1 for every two points in the stat. That modifier is added to accuracy checks for attacks that consult Attack or Special Attack respectively. The modifier is also added onto damage when an attack hits, again a move that uses the Attack stat will add the Attack modifier and an attack consulting the Special Attack stat will use the Special Attack modifier.
Defense and Special Defense:
Also like trainers, the Defense and Special Defense stats represent the accuracy check that attackers need to match or beat in order to successfully hit with a move that consults the Attack and Special Attack stats respectively. If a foe fails the accuracy check when attacking against either Defense or Special Defense, the attack fails and the defender takes no damage.
Speed:

Weight Classes are used to figure out their general burden on a person who might be carrying them, or a building's floor, a bridge, a boat, a plane, or anything really that's holding something else up. Weights will be described as Featherweight, Light, Medium, Heavy, and Superweight. Featherweight is any Pokťmon species that would never be more than 5 lbs. Light Pokťmon species are heavier than 5 lbs. but never heavier than 20 lbs. Pokťmon species with a

Speed is used to determine how far your Pokťmon moves during combat. The Speed stat is multiplied by 5 ft. to represent how far the Pokťmon can move on their turn. Speed also lets everyone know the turn order during combat, highest going first. In addition, an attack made against a Pokťmon that does not consult either Attack or Special Attack is rolled against the Speed stat during accuracy checks.

Medium weight are usually in between 20 and 150 lbs. It's a

wide range, but not as wide a range as Heavy Pokťmon who could fall anywhere from 150 to 400 lbs. Superweight Pokťmon are heavier than 400 lbs. so make sure you're feeding them well enough and not letting them crush you.
Relative strength of any given Pokťmon is defined by their weight. You can assume a Pokťmon is able to push around or even carry within their weight class and below. Keep in mind, if your Onix is smaller than most, it'll not be able to carry as much as an average sized Onix.

While not noted per Pokťdex entry, your Pokťmon will have a nature that positively affects one stat and negatively affects another. When filling in your Pokťmon on your character sheet, keep in mind that the Pokťdex's stats are the starting point. Your features and your Pokťmon's nature will modify the stats to create their new stats. When nature affects your Pokťmon's stats, it positively and negatively affects whichever relevant stats by +1/-1.

How to Use: Pokťdex

10

Passives

Pokťmon Passives affect how they work in battle. They are static abilities that constantly affect how their offensive moves work, or sometimes triggered consequences of a foe attacking them. There are two types of passives. Stat passives and ability passives that are diverse and grouped into a long list in the Pokťdex books and after this section of the Player's Handbook.

Stat Passives:

Pokťmon Skills
Most Pokťmon Skills are simple to understand. It has a name, and a short explanation for what that means for the Pokťmon. Pokťmon Skills, unlike trainer skills, do not usually make skill checks and instead indicate things the Pokťmon can do without using an attack or a passive. The full description of the Pokťmon Skills are listed in the Pokťdex books and after this section of the Player's Handbook. Not all Pokťmon Skills are a good thing, as Sinker and Flopper indicate Pokťmon who may have a great deal of trouble in water, and those greatly hindered by being out of water.

Stat Passives are passives that affect the Pokťmon's stats. In the Pikachu example, we see Nasty Plot and Play Nice. Without those passives, the Pikachu's Special Attack would be 5 and its Defense would be 4. Pokťmon cannot ever have more than three stat passives. If a Pokťmon loses a stat passive, temporarily or otherwise, the Pokťmon's appropriate stat is lowered. Stat passives are grouped into different stats as well, and you can't have multiple stat passives from the same groups that do the same thing. Details about these different stat passive groups are located in the Pokťdex books and after this section of the Player's Handbook.
Ability Passives:
Ability passives describe different utility abilities that Pokťmon have. In the Pokťdex entries, the passive will be listed word for word. The list of these passives will also be located in the Pokťdex books and after this section of the Player's Handbook.

Skills can be used both in and outside of combat, so

Moves

when you're having trouble finding a solution to a problem

remember that your Pokťmon are just as useful as allies in Each Pokťmon's Pokťdex entry will list three moves,

a battle as they are while exploring. You don't always need also known as attacks, that the Pokťmon knows. A Pokť-

to keep your Pokťmon inside your Pokť Balls. Though you mon can have up to 6 moves on a player's Pokťmon sheet.

should keep in mind that a Pokťmon constantly exposing When a Pokťmon evolves, they often learn 3 new moves,

themselves to foreign terrain or difficult tasks could tire and so will sometimes need to replace previous moves,

them.

making sure never to go over 6 moves total. A Pokťmon

could inherit a move from a parent at birth, be tutored to

learn a move from a trainer, a technical machine could

have been used on the Pokťmon, or just strangely a wild

could know a move that's unusual to know.

Moves are described in detail per Pokťdex entry, but are also listed after the combat section of the Player's Handbook and also in different source books for Pokťmon: Tabletop Adventures 3. How to read moves are located in the Combat section of this book, but also replicated in various other source books Pokťmon: Tabletop Adventures 3.

How to Use: Pokťdex

11

Biology

Ignoring any primary feeding behavior any Pokťmon can

still enjoy any edible food designed for a Pokťmon to con-

There's a lot of information in the Biology section of a

sume such as berries, poffins, aprijuice, Pokť puffs, Pokť

Pokťmon's Pokťdex entry. Egg group, hatch rate, diet, habi- beans, or Pokťblocks. By keeping track of your Pokťmon's

tats, and evolution is all listed in two or three lines. Even

needs, you can influence their living conditions in a positive

though everything can be summarized in such short terms, manner and make their partnership with you as Pokťmon

it means a lot and so this section goes a little deeper into and trainer stronger.

each section of the Pokťdex biology entry.

Habitat:

Egg Group:

There are some places that a particular species of Pokť-

Pokťmon are mysterious when it comes to reproduction mon will not thrive. For obvious reasons, you'll only find

because they can cross breed between evolutionary stages fish-like Pokťmon in the water or rocky Pokťmon near

and even species, but not any Pokťmon can mate with any rocky places. The habitat entry explains what kind of terrain

Pokťmon. There are limits and these limits are defined as to look for if you intend to hunt for a particular species of

egg groups. Pokťmon can only produce eggs when oppo- Pokťmon. Keep in mind, just because you may be in the

site genders mate and both Pokťmon share an egg group. appropriate terrain to find a particular Pokťmon, it doesn't

The egg groups are Amorphous, Bug, Dragon, Fairy, Field, Flying, Grass, Human-Like, Mineral, Monster, Water 1, Water 2, and Water 3. There is also the Ditto egg group,

mean you are in the right region or specific location. The following location indicators say a little about the different kinds of habitats out there.

exclusive to the Pokťmon species Ditto, who can breed

Beach:

with any other Pokťmon to produce an Egg while acting as

either the male or female. Egg groups are not always equiv-

Rocky and sandy beaches play home to many semia-

alent to a Pokťmon's types nor do Pokťmon always have quatic Pokťmon that are content only spending some of

two egg groups.

their time in the sea. The intertidal zone also supports rock

pools where some hardier Water-types make their homes.

Hatch Rate:

Desert:

Each species takes a different amount of time to hatch

so the average hatch rate covers how quickly the egg

Sandy, arid deserts support many Ground-type Pokť-

should hatch. The average hatch rate however is only an mon that can burrow away from the sun's heat. Many other

average. Sometimes the egg may take twice the length of hardy species of Pokťmon, however, have also adapted to

time or only half of it, depending how well the egg is kept. a life of sweltering days and frigid nights. Some more-

Depending on what species the mother of the egg is, the specific entries will include the habitats badlands, scrub-

baby will be the lowest form of that species' evolutionary lands, or wastelands. Harsh weather, barren and rocky soil,

line. The only exception is when a family tie is listed here. A and few trees for shelter make these areas tough to survive

family tie means that a single Pokťmon species may lay

in. Though many types are represented, few are particular-

eggs of multiple species, like Miltank being able to produce ly abundant; resilient Steel- and Ground-types stand out

eggs that contain either Miltank or Tauros when hatched. from the rest, though Dark-, Dragon-, and even Flying-types

appear as well.

Diet:

Forest:

The diet entry explains what kind of food the Pokťmon

needs to survive. Carnivores primarily feed on other Pokť-

Most trainers are familiar with temperate, broadleaf

mon, while herbivores will usually need leafy food, vegeta- forests. With mild, but seasonal weather and healthy tree

bles, nuts and fruits to survive. Omnivores can eat plants or growth, they play home to many common Pokťmon. Many

other Pokťmon, and phototrophs can photosynthesize

types can be found in these forests, but Grass-, Bug-, Flying

their own food and energy. Some of the stranger diets

-, and Normal-types are the most abundant. Novice trainers

some Pokťmon have are that of a terravore; one who feeds would do well starting their adventures in such areas.

on the minerals found in rock and dirt around them, or the

nullivore; which does not need to eat anything to sustain

itself for various reasons. There's also saprophytes that

feed on decaying matter or minerals off the ground, ergo-

vores feed on electricity and other energy, glacievores sur-

vive by consuming ice and water, pollutivores feed on pol-

lution of any kind, even psiotrophs who sustain themselves

off the thoughts and life force of others.

How to Use: Pokťdex

12

Freshwater:

Jungle:

Freshwater inhabitants could live near ponds, lakes,

Tropical jungles are warm and humid year-round

streams or rivers, on their shores or in the waters them- with very frequent rainfall. They are densely vegetated

selves. Ponds are the smallest, freshwater bodies of water with tall trees, vines, and other plants. A thick canopy of

characterized by their stagnation; water doesn't flow in or leaves shades over a dark understory in these rainforests.

out of them. Pond Pokťmon can usually tolerate murky Grass- and Bug-types thrive in these prolific habitats, which

waters; finding refuge in calmer, smaller pools of water. have more Pokťmon and plant life per square meter than

While Water-types are abundant here, Bug-types also often any other terrestrial biome.

can be seen flitting around ponds. Lakes are large bodies of fresh water; they aren't flowing like rivers or streams,

Mountain:

but also aren't small and murky like ponds. This makes

Mountainous habitats include the exposed earth on

them ideal for larger Pokťmon that aren't equipped to

mountain ranges but also the caves underneath and the

handle swift currents. Naturally, Water-types are most

active volcanic mountains. Mountain specifically refers to

common in lakes. Swiftly-flowing freshwater streams and the open-faced, rugged mountainsides ideal for Rock- and

rivers are also home to a number of different Water-type Steel-types. These places are also remote and usually qui-

Pokťmon, many of whom also inhabit lakes. Species that et, so Fighting-types often find refuge on them so they can

manage to dwell in these areas are usually adapted to ei- train in peace. Underneath, little to no light penetrates into

ther swim against or endure currents so they aren't swept dark, damp caverns. Mineral-rich Ground-, Rock-, and Steel

away. Pokťmon that dwell near lakes and rivers are usually -types can often be found underground alongside a variety

--but not always--decent swimmers that could jump right in of Pokťmon adapted to life in the dark. Some Dragon-

if they wanted. Most species in riparian habitats are also types also have a preference to hide themselves deep

Water-types, but again, there are exceptions. Access to

within winding caves. For most of their altitude, volcanoes

fresh water means that these areas often support vibrant are much like mountains in terms of the wildlife that they

plant life alongside their banks.

support. Close to the craters of active ones though, or near

Grasslands:

magma pools inside of them, only Pokťmon that can withstand the blistering heat can survive. Naturally, this means

Grasslands covers a pretty wide range of habitats

Fire-types thrive in these areas, though sturdier Rock-types

and while similar, they are specifically varied and so you'll and the occasional Poison-type can be found here as well.

often see these entries with additional information as they

cover woodlands, fields, meadows, savannas, plains, and

prairies. Grasslands, plains, prairies, and savannas are

characterized by a lack of tall trees and an abundance of

tall grass. They are warm with seasonal rainfall; dry sea-

sons are exceptionally devoid of water. Brushfires are an

occasional occurrence in these areas, a phenomenon exac-

erbated by Fire- and Electric-types that can start them. Poi-

son- and Normal-types are also a regular sight in the tall

grass. Open fields and meadows are turfed with lush, short

grass and wildflowers. A near-total lack of trees grants

these areas with gentle breezes, open skies, and warm

sunlight. With temperate weather and moderate rainfall,

many Normal- and Flying-types can be found in these habi-

tats. Oddly, Electric-types often dwell here as well, perhaps

so they can be unobstructed by trees during lightning

storms. Woodlands are a bit less dense than forests, allow-

ing them to support more shrubs and bushes. They often

form in areas where a few trees have fallen, allowing flow-

ers and tall grasses to take advantage of open light. Damp,

rotting logs and plentiful shade from remaining trees make

woodlands ideal for Bug-types; when night falls, Dark-

types, Ghost-types, and Fairy-types may also appear in

these whimsical habitats.

How to Use: Pokťdex

13

Ocean:

Urban:

The ocean is a big place, and this habitat grouping in-

Urban areas like cities are defined by the humans

cludes the open ocean itself, the continental shelf on its

that live in them and the environments that they create.

borders, the tropical seas and its coral reefs, and the great Some Pokťmon only can live parts of their lives in cities,

dark abyss at its bottom. The vast, open ocean supports while others happily inhabit walkways, alleys, or even

many types of marine Water-types. Some float near the

homes as pets--or pests. Normal-, Psychic-, Fighting-, and

surface of the sea in sunlit waters, while others dive deeper Ghost-type Pokťmon often coexist alongside people, while

below into the pelagic zone. Still others spend their lives Poison-types even thrive on the waste that we create. As

resting on the sea floor and the continental shelf. In warm, one would expect, Electric-types love to congregate around

sunlit waters and vibrant coral reefs Water-types have

areas with high levels of electrical activity. One would most

abundant food and shelter, making them the richest eco- readily think of human structures like power plants, but

systems in the world. Marine Pokťmon of all kinds can be these Pokťmon are also attracted to naturally-occurring

found in these tropical havens, which are particularly sensi- magnetic hot spots and lightning rods. Ruins and cemeter-

tive to changes in water temperature, salinity, and cleanli- ies are an odd habitat; they are associated with humans,

ness. Little is known about the deepest trenches of the sea but they are remnants of past activity rather than current

floor, where the water is frigid, the pressure is crushing,

events. The Pokťmon that dwell in these urban locations

and the seascape is engulfed in darkness. The life down in are often associated with the supernatural, as if they can

these abysses is often unusual and alien; these Pokťmon detect something about their surroundings that science

have adapted to an environment unlike any other in the and humanity cannot.

world.

Wetlands:

Polar:

While they may seem unappealing and dreary on the

The polar habitats cover the top of frozen mountains, surface, swamps, bogs, and marshes are some of the rich-

massive glaciers, icy caves, and the polar seas themselves≠ est terrestrial habitats we know of. These environments

when this habitat is listed it is always further specified. This play home to many Grass-, Bug-, Water-, and Poison-types

habitat includes the most frozen reaches of the worlds.

who have devised ways to take advantage of the acidic, ox-

These areas are permanently trapped in plant-unfriendly ygen-poor soils that characterize such places.

ice, so the life that survives here--primarily Ice-types, of course--has adapted to withstand freezing temperatures

Evolution:

and scarce food supplies. In the ocean, the polar seas are a Not all Pokťmon evolve the same way, and some don't

frigid habitat often filled with ice floes and icebergs. Parts even evolve. It the evolution entry says natural, this just

of these areas routinely freeze over entirely, locking vast means that the Pokťmon will evolve on its own accord

expanses of ocean water beneath them. The Ice- and Water when it feels ready. You as a trainer can urge this on by

-types that dwell in these chilly seas are adapted to with- training and battling with them often and treating them

stand subzero temperatures and survive even as the wa- well to raise their loyalty. Sometimes a Pokťmon will have

ters freeze around them.

an evolutionary stone next to their evolution entry. If they

Tundra:

have an evolutionary stone, the Pokťmon simply needs to be exposed the radioactive stone by touch. It will absorb

The tundra is characterized by a layer of permafrost the radioactivity and render the stone useless, but then

that makes it difficult for anything more than grasses,

evolve accordingly. Pokťmon might also have a time of day

mosses, and lichens to grow. Meanwhile, boreal forests are listed here, this means that they will evolve the same way

filled with evergreen, coniferous trees and are sometimes others do naturally, but only do so during certain times of

blanketed in snow. These areas have seasons of total dark- day.

ness where the sun never rises, but also fleeting periods where it never sets. Ice-types are the most common in

Proficiencies:

these frigid areas, but heartier Normal-types sometimes

Almost every Pokťmon can be taught to perform attacks

dwell here as well.

and skills that they are not always inherently capable of.

Using the proficiencies tables located after the list of Pokť-

mon in the Pokťdex, and finding a proper tutor or Tech-

nical Machine during play, allows many Pokťmon to be

differentiated from many of their fellow species members

in battle.

How to Use: Pokťdex

14

Pokťmon Skills

The Pokťmon skills listed here are all sorts of things a

Pokťmon is capable of in and out of battle. Pokťmon skills

are not explicitly for battle, like passives or Pokťmon

moves, but should be kept in mind to get some unique use

out of your different Pokťmon. Pokťmon skills are listed

here with descriptions and the short summaries you'll see

in Pokťdex entries. If a Pokťmon gains a move that ena-

bles the use of a Skill, but later loses that move, they lose

the skill as well. If a Pokťmon starts with a move that ena-

bles a Skill, but does not have the skill listed in its skills,

then later loses the move that enabled the Skill, the Pokť-

mon loses the Skill.

Firestarter - A Pokťmon who has the firestarter skill can

produce flames. They can control how lightly or powerfully

they produce the fire, creates puffs of fire the size of a

Alluring - Pokťmon who are alluring smell very pleasant. lighter or a large burst of fire capable of engulfing a tree. If

They may attract wild Pokťmon easily. Attention is com- a Pokťmon learns the move Blast Burn, Blaze Kick, Ember,

monly turned toward fragrant, alluring Pokťmon by wilds. Fiery Dance, Fire Blast, Fire Fang, Fire Lash, Fire Punch, Fire

If a Pokťmon learns the move Aromatherapy or Sweet

Spin, Flame Burst, Flame Charge, Flame Wheel,

Scent and does not have the alluring skill, they gain allur- Flamethrower, Flare Blitz, Heat Crash, Heat Wave, or Incin-

ing. (attracts others with their aroma)

erate and does not have the firestarter Skill, they gain fire-

Amorphous - Amorphous Pokťmon have an inconsistent starter. (can create fire)

shape. They can flatten and reform themselves like gel.

Flopper ≠ A Pokťmon with the flopper Skill probably

They can stretch out their body material and condense

doesn't like being out of water. While it's not dangerous to

themselves as well. By doing this, a Pokťmon can access move around on, a flopper treats all normal terrain as diffi-

places others couldn't, or bypass a door or two, only to let their non-amorphous friends in afterwards. (can change their body into a liquid-like state)

cult terrain and all difficult terrain as blocking terrain. If anything modifies how a Pokťmon moves making movement easier, Pokťmon with flopper will still treat difficult terrain as difficult terrain but can then flop around on nor-

Beached - When a Pokťmon has the beached skill, they mal terrain without trouble. (treats dry land as special ter-

need to stay in water. Beached means the Pokťmon has a rain)

hard time battling when not submerged in water. For every Flight - Pokťmon with flight are not bound to the ground.

round of an encounter the Pokťmon is not at least half

Through means of wings, or psychic ability, or electromag-

way submerged in water, they lose 10% of their max HP. If netic levitation, these Pokťmon can remain in the air for

the Pokťmon is lowered to -100% HP for more than 10

hours at a time, sometimes never needing to return to the

rounds of combat, make a deaths savings roll as usual.

ground. These Pokťmon can use their movements speeds

Beached Pokťmon can calmly remain out of water. (needs in the air. If a Pokťmon learns the move Fly and does not

to be in water)

have the flight Skill, they gain flight. (can fly)

Burrow ≠ Pokťmon with burrow can quickly dig through Fountain - A Pokťmon who has the fountain skill can pro-

solid earth, rock, clay, or even soft sand. When moving

duce freshwater. They can control how lightly or powerful-

through any earth, burrowing Pokťmon treat underground ly they produce the water, sprinkling water or forcefully

as normal terrain, without penalizing their movement

shooting water with the strength of a fire hose. If a Pokť-

speed. If a Pokťmon learns the move Dig and does not

mon learns the move Hydro Cannon, Hydro Pump, Liqui-

have the burrow skill, they gain burrow (moves through

dation, Scald, Soak, Water Gun, Water Pulse, Waterfall, or

earth easily)

Whirlpool and does not have the fountain Skill, they gain

Chilled ≠ Chilled Pokťmon are always cold to the touch.

fountain. (can create water)

(always cold)

Climber ≠ Pokťmon with an aptitude for climbing, or just many sticky legs, treat vertical terrain and even ceiling surfaces as normal terrain that they can navigate without affecting their movement speed. (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain)

Pokťmon Skills

15

Freezer - When a Pokťmon has the freezer skill, they can produce ice at a controlled rate. They can make puffs of snow, or ice cubes, or spread icicles across surfaces. As their action, a Pokťmon with freezer can target an area on the ground and slowly turn it into icy, difficult terrain. They can make one 5x5 ft. area into icy, difficult terrain or fluffy, snowy, difficult terrain per 6 seconds. If a Pokťmon learns the move Aurora Beam, Blizzard, Freeze-Dry, Frost Breath, Ice Beam, Ice Fang, Ice Punch, Icy Wind, Powder Snow, or Sheer Cold, and does not have the freezer skill, they gain freezer. (can create ice)

Gilled - A gilled Pokťmon can breathe underwater. It never needs to come up for air, remaining underwater for as long as it wants to. (can breathe underwater)

Hover - Hovering Pokťmon use some force in order to float above the ground, or even over water, without touching the surface. Whether its magnetic, gravitational, air currents, or some other magical power, it's uncertain what keeps some of these Pokťmon in the air, but they can't go higher than 10 ft off the ground while staying airborne indefinitely. If a Pokťmon learns the move Magnet Rise and does not have the hover skill, they gain hover. (can hover)

Glow - A Pokťmon with the glow skill can emit light from a part of its body. Depending on the variety of wild Pokťmon nearby, it might attract Pokťmon or ward them away. If a Pokťmon learns the move Flash or stat passive Tail Glow and does not have the glow skill, they gain glow. (can produce light)
Groundshaper - A Pokťmon with the groundshaper skill can skillfully and precisely transform the terrain around them to create difficult terrain or flatten out rough terrain to create normal terrain. As their action, a Pokťmon with groundshaper can target an area on the ground and slowly turn it into sandy, or rock covered difficult terrain, or change difficult terrain into smooth dirt-covered, normal terrain. They can make one 5x5 ft. area into difficult terrain or normal terrain per 6 seconds. If a Pokťmon learns the move Bulldoze, Earth Power, Earthquake, Sand Tomb, or Stomping Tantrum and does not have the groundshaper Skill, they gain groundshaper. (can manipulate the ground)

Inflatable - A Pokťmon with the skill inflatable can expand its size from tiny to small, small to medium, medium to large, large to huge, or huge to gigantic. They do so by inhaling vast amounts of air or temporarily growing the size of their plant-like bodies. While inflated, a Pokťmon does not change its weight. A Pokťmon can maintain its larger size for up to 5 mins. If a Pokťmon learns the move Stockpile or the stat passive Growth and does not have the inflatable skill, they gain inflatable. (can expand)
Intelligence ≠ Intelligence marks a Pokťmon for higher brain function and often these Pokťmon can surpass human intellect. While intelligent Pokťmon are capable of independent decisions, they still trust your leadership and will usually wait for your instruction. If you are unconscious or otherwise unable to make decisions, an intelligent Pokťmon will act of its own accord, once per round if none of your other Pokťmon are acting that round. Intelligent Pokťmon are problem solvers and can be dangerous foes if encountered in the wild. (very smart)

Guster - A Pokemon with the guster skill can create bursts of wind. The power can vary from a light breeze to a powerful burst of air capable of lifting light objects into the air or providing lift for a chute. If a Pokťmon learns the move Gust, or Hurricane, or the stat passive Tailwind and does not have the guster Skill, they gain guster. (can produce wind)

Heater - A Pokťmon with the heater skill is always warm when touched. (always warm)

Pokťmon Skills

16

Invisibility - Pokťmon who have the invisibility skill can Repulsive - This Pokťmon can emit an unpleasant odor turn invisible. Pokťmon may not perform moves while in- that Wild Pokťmon find repulsive. Wild Pokťmon may igvisible. While invisible, foes must roll +4 during an accuracy nore this smell to protect something precious to them. If a checks to hit you and still need a general idea of where you Pokťmon learns the move Corrosive Gas, Gastro Acid, last were to hit you. When a Pokťmon turns invisible, they Gunk Shot, Poison Gas, Sludge, Sludge Bomb, Sludge can only remain invisible for up to 4 minutes. After becom- Wave, Smog, or Venom Drench and does not have the reing visible, they must wait two plus the number of minutes pulsive Skill, they gain repulsive. (repels others with a foul they spent invisible before using their invisibility again. You smell) cannot turn invisible in the same turn you've attacked. (can turn invisible)

Magnetic - Magnetic Pokťmon can lightly manipulate magnetic fields. With this, they can repel iron and/or steel or attract iron and/or steel, holding it too their body or pushing it away. Through this magnetic manipulation, they can also feel magnetic fields and discern north. If a Pokťmon learns the move Magnet Bomb, Magnet Pull, or Magnet Rise and does not have the magnetic Skill, they gain magnetic. (controls magnetic fields)

Mind Lock - Pokťmon who have the skill mind lock cannot have their minds read. (minds can't be read)

Modular - Modular Pokťmon are often made up of separate units that make of their body or consciousness. Modular Pokťmon can often take up different spaces simultaneously during combat and reshape themselves to fit in different ways at different sizes everywhere. Modular Pokťmon stats do not change no matter how they are configured. Modular Pokťmon cannot separate a part of themselves further than 50ft from any other part of their body. Consider the Pokťmon≠ Falinks can reconfigure into six

Shrinkable - A Pokťmon with the skill shrinkable can shrink its size from gigantic to huge, huge to large, large to medium, medium to small, or small to tiny. While shrunken, a Pokťmon may not perform any moves and it does not change its weight. A Pokťmon can maintain its smaller size for up to 5 mins. If a Pokťmon learns the move Minimize and does not have the shrinkable skill, they gain shrinkable. (can shrink)

bodies, Magneton into three. (consists of X parts)

Sinker - Sinker means the Pokťmon cannot swim, or move

while submerged in water. For every round of an encoun-

ter the Pokťmon is in water that is deep enough for them

to stand submerged in, they lose 10% of their max HP. If

the Pokťmon is lowered to -100% HP for more than 10

rounds of combat, make a deaths savings roll as usual. If a

Pokťmon gains the swimmer skill, they lose their sinker

skill. (can't swim)

Sprouter - A Pokťmon with the sprouter skill can rapidly

influence the growth of plants and flora around them.

Over 6 seconds, a sprouter can grow a plant 5 ft taller or

wider than it previously was. Through the use of sprouter,

the Pokťmon can also make plants grow up to twice of the

Phasing - A Pokťmon with phasing may move through

normal size they would become naturally. If a Pokťmon

hindering or blocking terrain without their movement

learns the move Frenzy Plant, Grass Knot, Ingrain, Leech

speed being affected. They can turn intangible and move Seed, or Synthesis and does not have the sprouter Skill,

through solid walls or another Pokťmon. A Pokťmon can they gain sprouter. (can manipulate plant life)

remain intangible with phasing for up to 30 seconds. If a Pokťmon remains intangible, they may not perform moves during their turn. Attacks that use the Special Attack stat can still target and hit a phasing Pokťmon. (can move through solid objects)

Stealth ≠ Not all Pokťmon are allowed to make a stealth check. With stealth, Pokťmon may roll a stealth check like a human trainer, adding their Speed modifier, calculated like a human's, to see if they can silently move during or outside of battle without being detected. (can make stealth skill

Reach - A Pokťmon with reach may make melee attacks checks)

from up to 25 ft. away. Pokťmon with reach are either real-

ly large or have a stretchy limb with which they can strike

foes from a distance. (melee range is X ft.)

Pokťmon Skills

17

Original Repulsive by Sol

Strength ≠ A Pokťmon with the strength skill is exceptionally strong, physically. With little effort, they can lift and move things vastly heavier than themselves. If they are featherweight, they can easily lift medium weights; if light weight, they can easily lift heavy weights; if medium weight, they can easily lift over 400-600 lbs.; at heavy weight, they can easily lift over 800-1000 lbs.; superweights with strength can lift or push up to 1000-1500 lbs. If a Pokťmon learns the move Strength, they gain the strength skill. (very strong)
Swimmer ≠ A swimmer loves the water. They treat kneedeep water as normal terrain as well as anything deeper than that. Swimmers are not always gilled, so make sure they're coming up for air when they need to. (can swim)
Telekinetic - Telekinetic Pokťmon can move objects with their mind. They can lift things that are lighter than themselves. They can move objects up to 25 ft. away. If a Pokťmon learns the move Confusion, Extrasensory, Psychic, or Trick and does not have the telekinetic skill, they gain telekinetic. (can move things with their mind)

Tough Cookie - A tough cookie has it rough and is used to be knocked unconscious due to its frail constitution. If a Pokťmon with Tough Cookie is knocked unconscious, the attacker must deal enough damage for the Tough Cookie to be at ≠25HP or lower with the intention to kill in order to force a death saving throw. This only matters if you are playing with death saving throws. (lowers chance of death)
Tracker - Pokťmon with the skill tracker have a strong sense of smell that they can use to follow other Pokťmon or people using a Investigate skill check, adding their Special Attack modifier. If the Pokťmon has smelled whom they want to track in the past day, or one of their personal belongings, they can pursue that prey with a skill check of 11 or better. To pick up a random scent from nothing, a skill check of 16 or better will allow the Pokťmon to follow that scent. To pick up a specific scent from nothing, a skill check of 20 will allow the Pokťmon to follow that scent. A Pokťmon may only make these checks once per hour. If a Pokťmon learns the move Odor Sleuth and does not have the tracker Skill, they gain tracker. (can follow scents)
Wired - Wired Pokťmon have a special relation to electronic devices. They can enter machines and travel through connected electronics through any cords that connect them instantly. While inside machines, they can read data on the machine or they can even take control of the machine on a programming skill check adding their Special Attack modifier. (can go into electronics)

Telepath - A telepathic Pokťmon can read the minds of

people and another Pokťmon. Telepathic Pokťmon can

project their thoughts to humans and Pokťmon. The Pokť-

mon can only read surface thoughts. Some species can on-

ly read emotions and will specify if that's the case. If a Pokť-

mon learns the move Mind Reader or the ability Telepathy

and does not have the telepath skill, they gain telepath.

(can read minds) or (can read emotions)

Threaded - If a Pokťmon has the threaded skill they may move around with their threaded skill by shooting out silk webs or strong vines. A threaded movement is when a Pokťmon targets an object less than 30 ft. away and shoots a strong, thin line of silk, or extends a vine from themselves, and then quickly retracts that silk, or vine, pulling itself towards the object if the Pokťmon is lighter than the object or pulling the object towards the Pokťmon if the object is lighter than it is. If you target another Pokťmon or person with a threaded movement, roll your accuracy

Zapper - Pokťmon with the zapper skill can produce controlled electricity or send electrical currents through various conductive materials. If an electrical device is capable of being recharged, a Pokťmon with zapper can recharge it to full power slowly. If a Pokťmon learns the move Charge, Charge Beam, Discharge, Electrify, Electro Ball, Parabolic Charge, Shock Wave, Spark, Thunder, Thunder Fang, Thunder Punch, Thunder Shock, Thunder Wave, Thunderbolt, Volt Tackle, Wild Charge, or Zap Cannon and does not have the zapper skill, they gain zapper. (can produce electricity)

check against their Speed stat. You may still use a move on

the same turn you perform a threaded movement. If a

Pokťmon learns the move Electro Web, Power Whip, Spider

Web, or Vine Whip or the stat passive String Shot, and does

not have the threaded skill, they gain threaded. (can move

around on spun threads/vines)

18

Pokťmon Skills

Pokťmon Skills

19

Getting Started: Starter Pokťmon In the Pokťmon World
One of the most important moments of a trainer's life is when they pick their starter Pokťmon. All over the world, professors work with league organizations to distribute starter Pokťmon to trainers new to Pokťmon training, and sometimes to experienced trainers, who are simply new to the region. Usually, a professor will let a player pick one of three starters, between a Grass-type, a Fire-type, or a Water-type, but some professors have multiple Pokťmon to choose from of each type. Some professors also have Pichu, Pikachu or Eevee to give out at the start of a person's adventure.
Each starter in the Grass / Fire / Water types create the opportunity for direct advantages with a rival NPC or even fellow party member. Grass-type typically has the advantage against Water-type; Water-type typically will beat Fire-type; and Fire-type usually has the advantage against Grass-type because of elemental super-effective attacks and resistances. This doesn't really work out for Pichu and Eevee, but they are a different kind of starter Pokťmon.
Even though these Pokťmon star in the Pokťmon video game series as starter Pokťmon in specie sets of three, you might find a set of starters who originally came from different generations offered to you by your GM. For example, instead of Bulbasaur, Charmander, and Squirtle, you might find Bulbasaur, Tepig, and Sobble being offered by a professor.
Your GM might also offer Pokťmon that are not from the following starters section. Maybe you'd see an elemental advantage cycle of Dark / Psychic / Fighting, with Zigzagoon, Abra, and Timburr?
If you're the GM you should always talk to your players about which starter Pokťmon they'll be choosing from, if they're choosing starter Pokťmon. If you're creating a special list of starters to offer your players, let your players know before hand since it's likely that their choice of starter could influence their character's goals.
There are many opportunities for alternate starters. Here are a few of examples to consider as a GM:
Blipbug, Sewaddle, Impidimp, Zigzagoon (Urban), Magnemite, Mareep, Cleffa, Flabťbť, Machop, Timburr, Fletchling, Rookidee, Gastly, Litwick, Bounsweet, Seedot, Rhyhorn, Sandile, Spheal, Vanillite, Lillipup, Starly, Nidoran, Zubat, Hatenna, Solosis, Geodude, Roggenrola, Aron, Klink, Horsea, Tympole
This list is not exhaustive, add any starter that fits your setting, Game Masters.
20

Starter Pokťmon

The following families should be considered by GMs to award to players at the beginning of a campaign. They are sorted by type (Grass, Fire, then Water), and then by the generation that each Pokťmon family was introduced to the Pokťmon series. The Pichu and Eevee families, which are often seen as starters in various Pokťmon games, appear afterwards.
Grass
Bulbasaur / Ivysaur / Venusaur Chikorita / Bayleef / Meganium Treecko / Grovyle / Sceptile Turtwig / Grotle / Torterra Snivy / Servine / Serperior Chespin / Quilladin / Chesnaught Rowlet / Dartrix / Decidueye Grookey / Thwackey / Rillaboom Sprigatito / Floragato / Meowscarada
Fire
Charmander / Charmeleon / Charizard Cyndaquil / Quilava / Typhlosion Torchic / Combusken / Blaziken Chimchar / Monferno / Infernape Tepig /Pignite / Emboar Fennekin / Braixen / Delphox Litten / Torracat / Incineroar Scorbunny / Raboot / Cinderace Fuecoco / Crocalor / Skeledirge

Water
Squirtle / Wartortle / Blastoise Totodile / Croconaw / Feraligatr Mudkip / Marshtomp / Swampert Piplup / Prinplup / Empoleon Oshawott / Dewott / Samurott Froakie / Frogadier / Greninja Popplio / Brionne / Primarina Sobble / Drizzile / Inteleon Quaxly / Quaxwell / Quaquaval
Other Starters
Pichu / Pikachu / Raichu
Eevee / Vaporeon / Jolteon / Flareon / Espeon / Umbreon / Leafeon / Glaceon / Sylveon

Starter Pokťmon

21

Bulbasaur / Ivysaur / Venusaur 

Bulbasaur

Grass / Poison - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Sprouter (can manipulate plant life), Threaded (can move around with vines)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Overgrow (When you are below 20 HP, your Grass-type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Leech Seed - Ranged(10ft) Grass Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target gets a Seed Coat. The Coat has the following ability: At the beginning of your turn, if you are within 20 ft of the enemy who gave you the Seed Coat, you lose 1d12 HP. The enemy who gave you the Seed Coat will gain the same amount of HP that you lost. This Coat lasts for 3 mins, or until you are at 0 or less HP.

Vine Whip - Ranged(20ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 2d8.

Ivysaur

Grass / Poison - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Sprouter, Threaded

Passives: Growth (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Growl, Overgrow

The plants form symbiotic relationships with their hosts, growing alongside the Pokťmon and providing them with sustenance. By lying about in the sun, the Bulbasaur line allows the plants on their backs to photosynthesize and produce energy, which they can then use for themselves. The plants are able to become mobile by virtue of their active hosts, allowing them to move out of shaded areas and thus benefiting them as well. In the wild, Bulbasaur tend to be very rare, as they are shy creatures that prefer the company of their own kind. However, they are also generally very docile, tame, and loyal to people that they trust, and for that reason are one of the species of Pokťmon available for starting trainers to choose in many regions.

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)

Poison Powder - Melee Poison Effect: At-Will. Poison Powder has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Poisoned.
Sleep Powder - Melee Grass Effect: At-Will. Sleep Powder has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is put to Sleep.
Razor Leaf - Ranged(25ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Razor Leaf is a critical hit.

22

Upon evolution from Bulbasaur, Ivysaur become larger and more powerful. However, as a trade-off for their bulk, they also lose their ability to stand on their hind legs due to the mass of the bulbs on their backs. Their legs also grow stronger to compensate for the extra weight. It is vital that the bulbs on their backs receive ample sunlight so that they can photosynthesize and develop. As the bulbs grow larger and these Ivysaur become more powerful, they must spend increasing amounts of time in the sun in order to foster their growth. When Ivysaur are preparing to evolve into Venusaur, they will spend more time sunbathing and their bulbs will begin emanating a sweet, pleasant aroma.

Venusaur

Grass / Poison - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Sprouter, Threaded

Passives: Growth, Growl, Overgrow, Chlorophyll (While in Sunny Weather, your Speed is +2.)

The final evolution of Bulbasaur, Venusaur are powerful

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)

but relatively nonviolent Pokťmon. Despite their menacing appearances, Venusaur are docile Pokťmon, preferring to sunbathe so that the plants on their backs can photosyn-

Petal Blizzard - Ranged(10ft burst) Grass Attack: 3/day 3d10.

thesize rather than fight. They follow sunny patches that Synthesis - Self Grass Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP

reach the forest floor as the sun moves across the sky. With equal to half of your Max HP. If you are within Sunny enough solar energy, the flowers on their backs can release Weather, you are healed HP equal to 3/4ths of your Max

a fragrance that could calm both hostile Pokťmon and peo- HP instead.

ple alike. The scent could also attract a number of Bug-type Pokťmon to the flowers as well to aid in their pollination during the breeding season. This ability allows Venusaur to serve as peacekeepers of sorts in their native forests, not only stopping fights that break out in their territories, but also defending their domains from dangers with their

Solar Beam - Ranged(30ft beam) Grass Special Attack: 1/ day 5d12. Solar Beam is a two-turn move unless it is Sunny. On the first turn, do nothing. On the second turn or if it is Sunny, roll Solar Beam's Accuracy Check and damage.

might if necessary. Their gentle dispositions but great pow-

er are what make them one of the most well-rounded Pokťmon any trainer could start their Pokťmon journeys with.

Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Phototroph, Habitat - Forests / Jungles

Evolution: Bulbasaur

Ivysaur

Venusaur

Proficiencies: Grass / Poison / Floral / Stampeding (Venusaur)

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2.
23

Chikorita / Bayleef / Meganium 

Chikorita

Grass - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Alluring (attracts others with their aroma), Sprouter (can manipulate plant life)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Overgrow (When you are below 20 HP, your Grass-type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Razor Leaf - Ranged(25ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Razor Leaf is a critical hit.
Synthesis - Self Grass Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP. If you are within Sunny Weather, you are healed HP equal to 3/4ths of your Max HP instead.

Bayleef

Grass - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Alluring, Sprouter

Passives: Growl, Overgrow

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Reflect - Melee Psychic Effect: 3/day. Put a Reflect Coat on the target or yourself. The Coat has the following ability: Reduce damage from attacks that use the attack stat that hit you by 10. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

Chikorita primarily photosynthesize energy using their large leaves. Because of this, they spend most of their time peacefully sunbathing. Their leaves are highly sensitive to temperature and humidity. They love bright, sunny weather --in fact, one of the only times trainers may their see Chikorita upset is when the Pokťmon are prevented from going out on beautiful days. Their leaves (and the buds around their necks) also release a calming fragrance that causes those around them to become more amiable. When threatened, they wave their leaves around to placate foes.

Light Screen - Ranged(30ft) Psychic Effect: 3/day. Place 40ft of contiguous Light Screen Wall. Light Screen Wall is see through, 12 ft tall, and has the following ability: Special Attacks that target through this wall deal 10 less damage. This Wall disappears after 2 mins.

Magical Leaf - Ranged(25ft) Grass Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.

24

Upon evolution, Chikorita become more energetic; their scents also change to match. Bayleef release an invigorating fragrance from their budding "necklaces" that can perk up even the most tired people and Pokťmon. The fragrance can make one feel renewed and ready to fight. Oftentimes, people who raise Chikorita for their calming scents are surprised after they evolve; they suddenly want to get up and out of the house to have fun. Each of the curled-up leaves surrounding a Bayleef neck contains a small, growing, flower, responsible for releasing their characteristic fragrance. As they approach evolution, their scents strengthen and the buds around their necks enlarge and become more vivid. Bayleef also become more lively as they grow, sometimes to the exasperation of their trainers.

Meganium

Grass - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Alluring, Sprouter

Passives: Growl, Overgrow, Leaf Guard (While in sunny weather, you are cured of any afflictions.)

When Bayleef evolve into Meganium, they regain the ability to calm people with the scent released from the beautiful flowers around their necks. There is almost never fighting near wild Meganium, as their fragrance can often calm even the most aggressive of foes. Trainers often compare the feeling of relaxation from being around Meganium to a "day in a tranquil forest," fitting for such Pokťmon. They avoid conflict and prefer to placate enemies with their aroma, though they can still release the invigorating scent they did as Bayleef when necessary. Their breaths can revive dead flora; the grasslands in which these Pokťmon are rarely found in the wild are beautifully vibrant as a result. They communicate by releasing various scents and waving the stamens on their heads. Meganium remain extremely affectionate and defensive of their trainers.

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +4)
Safeguard - Ranged(10ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Put a Safe Coat on all allies and yourself. The Coat has the following ability: You cannot become afflicted. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.
Aromatherapy - Melee Grass Effect: 3/day. Target an ally or yourself. Target is cured of all afflictions.
Petal Dance - Ranged(5ft burst) Grass Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Petal Dance is a two-turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.

Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Phototroph, Habitat - Grasslands

Evolution: Chikorita

Bayleef

Meganium

Proficiencies: Grass / Floral / Healer

25

Treecko / Grovyle / Sceptile 

Treecko

Grass - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain), Sprouter (can manipulate plant life)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Overgrow (When you are below 20 HP, your Grass-type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Pound - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.

Grovyle

Grass - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Climber, Sprouter

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Leer, Overgrow

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +6)

Fury Cutter - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Fury Cutter against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Fury Cutter's damage.

Treecko never panic, even when faced with stronger foes, and will stand their ground no matter what. Though rare in the wild, they can be occasionally found high up in the branches of tall trees. They make their nests there to stay away from most predators. When their trees are threatened, Treecko will leap down and ferociously defend their homes. They are adept climbers, equipped with microscopic hooks on the bottom of their feet that enable them to hold onto slick surfaces. Treecko slam foes with their tails to attack. They also use them to measure humidity and predict the next day's weather. Treecko are known to stare down foes much larger themselves and provoke them into combat; however, they will never back down from a fight.

Pursuit - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d6. Pursuit deals +6 damage to a target if they ended their turn further away from you during the start of their turn.

Leaf Blade - Melee Grass Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Leaf Blade is a critical hit.

26

Like Treecko, Grovyle are masters of climbing. Upon evolution, however, they also gain the skills of jumping and leaping as well. In the dense forests in which they reside, Grovyle can leap from tree branch to tree branch with ease, gliding between them using the leaves on their arms for aid. This ability enables them to both escape from predators and sneak up on prey. Grovyle have extremely powerful thigh muscles that allow them to perform such jumping feats. In addition to helping them in the air, their foliage also helps them camouflage in the trees. The long leaves on their heads are also sensitive to flowing air currents, allowing them to adjust their trajectories in the air to land exactly where they want to. They are so skilled at jumping, in fact, that some say nothing can catch a fleeing Grovyle in its natural forest habitat. When threatened, Grovyle first confound their foes by swiftly leaping from tree to tree, obscuring their true locations. Then, they suddenly pounce at their opponents, slashing at them with the quick, but strong forearm leaves.

Sceptile

Grass - Large (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 9 Speed: 14 (70 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 11 Skills: Climber, Sprouter Passives: Agility, Screech (+2 Attack), Leaf Guard (While in sunny weather, you are cured of any afflictions), Overgrow

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +5, Effect +7)

Dual Chop - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 2d8. Dual Chop is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.

Sceptile leaves on their wrists are as sharp as swords

X-Scissor - Melee Bug Attack: 3/day 3d10.

and can cut through stone (though they are more common- Leaf Storm - Ranged(30ft beam) Grass Special Attack: 1/day

ly used to slice down tree trunks). They retain both the

5d12. After use, your Special Attack is -4 for 10 mins.

climbing and leaping abilities of their pre-evolutions, attack-

ing foes from above with swift slashes from their leaves. Sceptile are extremely protective of their territories; they keep close watches on intruders and will not hesitate to

Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Forests

strike should they feel their homes are threatened. They Evolution: Treecko

Grovyle

Sceptile

also take extraordinary care of the trees within their territories as well, making sure that each gets enough water and sunlight. The seeds on their backs are filled with nutrients

Proficiencies: Grass / Draconian (Grovyle / Sceptile) / Slashing (Grovyle / Sceptile)

and minerals that they use to help struggling saplings in

their forests. Sceptile regulate their body temperature by

basking in sunlight, as they are ectotherms. They store light

energy in their seeds. Not only are Sceptile protective and

nurturing Pokťmon, but also fierce and strong ones as well.

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 27

Turtwig / Grotle / Torterra 

Turtwig

Grass - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Sprouter (can manipulate plant life)

Passives: Withdraw (+1 Defense), Overgrow (When you are below 20 HP, your Grass-type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Razor Leaf - Ranged(25ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Razor Leaf is a critical hit.

Grotle

Grass - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Sprouter
Passives: Withdraw, Overgrow
Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Mega Drain - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d10. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

As usually mild natured creatures, Turtwig are neither fussy nor egregious. Turtwig rarely eat solid food (though they do indulge in Berries from time to time), gathering most of their energy via photosynthesis primarily through the leaves on their heads. The "shells" on their backs are actually layers of hardened soil. Turtwig must drink lots of clean water to keep their shells from becoming too dry and cracking. The shells of healthy Turtwig should feel moist to the touch, but not so waterlogged that they crumble when prodded. When Turtwig are thirsty, their leaves will wilt. Recently, researchers have discovered that their entire bodies can in fact undergo photosynthesis, allowing them to survive even if their leaves are damaged. Because of this, they are constantly enveloped in layers of clean oxygen.

Leech Seed - Ranged(10ft) Grass Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target gets a Seed Coat. The Coat has the following ability: At the beginning of your turn, if you are within 20 ft of the enemy who gave you the Seed Coat, you lose 1d12 HP. The enemy who gave you the Seed Coat will gain the same amount of HP that you lost. This Coat lasts for 3 mins, or until you are at 0 or less HP.

28

Grotle live in forests near springs, rivers, and other sources of clean water. They are heavily reliant on fresh water to keep their soil-based shells healthy; because of this, they will constantly search out new water sources in their forests. Each Grotle is said to have its own personal spring to reliably obtain water from. Grotle are benevolent Pokťmon, often carrying tired, smaller Pokťmon on their backs to their springs so they can rejuvenate themselves. Their bushes, which are rooted in their earthly shells, occasionally grow small berries or nuts. Avian Pokťmon gladly perch on their backs to consume their fruit. Grotle don't mind this, as they are easygoing Pokťmon. During the daytime, Grotle will leave their shady forests for open fields and clearings. As they bathe in direct sunlight, the bushes on their backs photosynthesize energy for them to use. In cloudy weather, Grotle will forage for Berries in the forest as they wait for the skies to clear. It is said that Grotle have an innate ability to find clean water, making them popular choices for forest travelers.

Torterra

Grass / Ground - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Groundshaper (can manipulate the ground), Sinker (can't swim), Sprouter

Passives: Withdraw, Overgrow, Shell Armor (Critical hits are treated as normal hits against you.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)

Earthquake - Ranged(30ft burst) Ground Attack: 1/day 3d12.

Synthesis - Self Grass Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP

Torterra find that their thin, earthy shells have developed to support entire miniature ecosystems. Torterra do not move around often, gathering most of their energy from photosynthesis via the trees and other plant life on

equal to half of your Max HP. If you are within Sunny Weather, you are healed HP equal to 3/4ths of your Max HP instead.
Giga Drain - Melee Grass Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

their backs. Because of their sedentary nature, the environ-

ments on their backs often becomes the homes of smaller

Pokťmon who nest within the tree or rocks. Some Pokť- Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 10

mon spend their entire lives on their backs, from birth to Days, Diet - Herbivore / Phototroph, Habitat - Forests

death. When groups of these Pokťmon migrate, it looks like entire forests are moving. Some regions have myths detail-

Evolution: Turtwig

Grotle

Torterra

ing that the entire world in fact rests on the shell of a gigan- Proficiencies: Grass / Ground (Grotle / Torterra)

tic, immobile Torterra. Though typically docile, Torterra can

/ Stampeding (Torterra)

retaliate powerfully when they or the inhabitants of their

shells are threatened by using the devastating attacks.

Torterra are a curious combination of peaceful demeanors

and tremendous offensive and defensive capabilities in

battle.

29

Snivy / Servine / Serperior 

Snivy

Grass - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Sprouter (can manipulate plant life), Threaded (can move around with vines), Tracker (can follow scents)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Overgrow (When you are below 20 HP, your Grass-type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Vine Whip - Ranged(20ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 2d8.

Wrap - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 physical damage on its turns.

Servine

Grass - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Sprouter, Stealth (can make stealth skill checks), Threaded, Tracker

Passives: Growth (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Leer, Overgrow

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Mega Drain - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d10. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Snivy are famous for their fickle natures and smug attitudes. Snivy will always keep their heads held up high. They are known to refuse orders they consider "unbecoming" or "unworthy;" in fact, Snivy may even persuade other Pokťmon to complete tasks they do not want to finish for them. Despite their haughty personalities, however, Snivy are also very calm and intelligent. Though they dislike combat, they will stay collected when attacked and always think before acting. Though their arms are usable, Snivy are more adept at using vines to handle objects. The leaves on their tails photosynthesize energy, making Snivy faster in bright sunlight. These leaves will also droop when Snivy are ill.

Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Slam has -2 during Accuracy Check.

Leaf Blade - Melee Grass Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Leaf Blade is a critical hit.

30

Servine arms have withered from disuse, as Servine manipulate their surroundings almost exclusively with their vines. They photosynthesize energy using the various leaves on their bodies; however, they cannot do this well when their leaves are dirty, so Servine spend much of their spare time cleaning them in broad daylight to ensure maximum efficiency in energy production. Servine consider themselves "above" eating like most Pokťmon do; as a result, even trained ones may refuse food in favor of basking in sunlight to photosynthesize. Though they can stand bipedally, Servine usually move around by slithering on their bellies. They defend themselves from foes with surprising agility, slithering swiftly between the legs of enemies to disorient them before lashing out with their vines. Servine are also known to use the shade of the thick foliage in their habitats to their advantage, hiding in the darkness to avoid attacks.

Serperior

Grass - Large (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 48 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 10 Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 8

Skills: Sprouter, Stealth, Threaded, Tracker
Passives: Coil (+2 Attack, +1 Defense), Leer, Chlorophyll (While in Sunny Weather, your Speed is +2.), Overgrow
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +4, Effect +5)

Giga Drain - Melee Grass Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Gastro Acid - Ranged(10ft) Poison Effect: 3/day. On hit, the

Serperior are infamous for their smugness and intellect. They always keep their heads held high, even in combat; in fact, they may even use this stance to try and intimidate foes in battle. Serperior consider most opponents unwor-

target cannot benefit from any ability passives for 10 mins.
Leaf Storm - Ranged(30ft beam) Grass Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. After use, your Special Attack is -4 for 10 mins.

thy of their time, and as a result will often ignore or only

halfheartedly retaliate against weaker foes. When confront- Biology: Egg Group - Field / Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 10

ed with opponents that prove to be their equals, however, Days, Diet - Omnivore / Phototroph, Habitat - Grasslands /

they will let their true power show. Their glares are said to Fields / Forests

be able to freeze weaker foes dead in their tracks. Though both their arms and legs have withered away from lack of

Evolution: Snivy

Servine

Serperior

use, Serperior are still very swift Pokťmon. They use their Proficiencies: Grass / Poison (Melee Attacks)

entire bodies to photosynthesize and create energy for

/ Slashing (Servine / Serperior)

their attacks, amplifying this energy internally when faced

with stronger foe. Even with their haughtiness, the great

agility and cleverness of Serperior is well respected.

31

Chespin / Quilladin / Chesnaught 

Chespin

Grass - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Sprouter (can manipulate plant life), Threaded (can move around with vines)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Overgrow (When you are below 20 HP, your Grass-type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Vine Whip - Ranged(20ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 2d8.

Rollout - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Rollout against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Rollout's damage.

Quilladin

Grass - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Sprouter, Threaded

Passives: Growl, Overgrow

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Needle Arm - Melee Grass Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Pin Missile - Ranged(10ft) Bug Attack: At-Will 1d4. Pin Missile has -2 during Accuracy Check. Pin Missile is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Chespin are inquisitive Pokťmon that enjoy exploring their surroundings. They are sometimes careless while wandering, however, and can unknowingly put themselves in danger. The spines on top of a Chespin head are normally soft and pliable; when threatened, though, these Pokťmon can quickly stiffen their quills so that their needle-like tips are sharp enough to pierce rocks. The coverings on their heads are made of wood, allowing them to withstand a headfirst collision without suffering any lasting damage. Chespin are cheerful and resilient Pokťmon that are quick to regain their spirits even in the face of troubles and difficulties. Chespin will often try their best to cheer up their friends after lost battles.

32

Quilladin are often peaceful Pokťmon that can be found very rarely in grasslands. They never start conflicts with other Pokťmon, even when resources are scarce. These Pokťmon would rather starve than take food from another hungry creature. If attacked, Quilladin will defend themselves with their hard shells and sharp spines; however, they won't attempt to counter-attack their aggressors. Quilladin shells are made of hard wood that can deflect the attacks of most enemies; their carapaces and sharp spines successfully deter most predators from even attempting to harm them. Quilladin live in small groups of about six or so individuals. Members of a group tend to be very close to one another. In their spare time, Quilladin will run into one another at high speeds in order to strengthen their lower bodies. Groups of Quilladin have been known to work together in order to defend smaller and weaker Pokťmon from predators by surrounding them to create tough walls of quills.

Chesnaught

Grass / Fighting - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 14 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Sprouter, Threaded

Passives: Bulk Up (+1 Attack, +1 Defense), Growl, Overgrow, Shell Armor (Critical hits are treated as normal hits against you.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Chesnaught are just as kind-hearted as they were as Chespin. Chesnaught are extremely sturdy Pokťmon--a tackle from one can overturn a car. By linking their arms in front of their faces, these Pokťmon can fuse their forearms together to form a shield, a defensive technique that protects them. Chesnaught will not hesitate to use their bodies, which are shielded by spiked, wooden carapaces, to protect smaller and weaker Pokťmon from attacks. In battle, they will defend their allies in this manner; there have even been many recorded cases of Chesnaught shielding their trainers from rockslides, explosions, and other dangers with their resilient bodies.

Spiky Shield - Self Grass Effect: 1/day. Spiky Shield is used as a Reaction. If an enemy within melee range would hit you with an attack, use Spiky Shield to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack, and also the enemy loses HP equal to 1/6th of its Max HP.
Wood Hammer - Melee Grass Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.
Hammer Arm - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Fields / Forests / Grasslands

Evolution: Chespin

Quilladin

Chesnaught

Proficiencies: Grass / Fighting / Bruiser (Quilladin / Chesnaught) / Martial (No Punches/Kicks) / Prickly

33

Rowlet / Dartrix / Decidueye 

Rowlet

Grass / Flying - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Flight (can fly), Sprouter (can manipulate plant life)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Overgrow (When you are below 20 HP, your Grass-type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Leafage - Ranged(20ft) Grass Special Attack: At-Will 1d12.

Peck - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Dartrix

Grass / Flying - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 5(25 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Flight, Sprouter

Passives: Growl, Overgrow

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Astonish - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Razor Leaf - Ranged(25ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Razor Leaf is a critical hit.

Foresight - Self Normal Effect: At-Will. You can hit Ghosttypes with Normal and Fighting type moves as if they are not immune to those types of attacks for two mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Flying / Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore / Phototroph, Habitat - Forests / Woodlands

Rowlet is a perceptive Pokťmon that can turn their heads 180 degrees to scan all around themselves. Their keen eyes also grant them with superb night vision, which these nocturnal hunters take great advantage of. Rowlet spend the day resting in the treetops, gathering energy from sunlight through photosynthesis as they sleep. When night falls, they take flight. Rowlet stalk prey from above without making a single sound, carefully positioning themselves before diving down and ambushing their prey with a pummeling of fast kicks with their sharp talons. They can also use their sharp, feather-like leaves from their wings like arrows and attack victims. Rowlet have an odd habit of turning their heads around fully to watch their trainers intently during battles. They are calmed by dark, tight spaces and will often burrow into the bags and coat pockets of trainers to rest. They are popular amongst trainers for their often stoic demeanors and observational skills.

Evolution: Rowlet Dartrix

Decidueye,

mysterious circumstances Decidueye (Legend)

Proficiencies: Grass / Fighting (Decidueye (Legend)) / Flying / Ghost (Decidueye) / Avian / Winged

34

Dartrix are obsessed with their appearances, spending most of their free time preening themselves. If their feathers become dirty or unkempt outside of battle, they will be rendered unable to focus on anything else until they tidy themselves up. They can also be quite high-strung Pokťmon; if they make an error in battle, they will obsess over it and often exacerbate the mistake by desperately trying to fix it. All of this fussiness, however, belies the fact that Dartrix are very skilled archers. When focused, Dartrix can sense approaching foes from any direction, even behind. They can fire sharp feathers, known as blade quills at opponents and strike them dead-on without even looking. Dartrix can even curve the trajectories of their quills to arc around obstacles and reach their targets.

Decidueye

Grass / Ghost - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Flight, Reach (melee range is treated as Ranged(30ft) *This ability is different than usual for Decidueye.), Sprouter, Stealth (can make stealth skill checks)

Passives: Feather Dance (+2 Defense), Nasty Plot (+1 Special Attack), Overgrow

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)

Spirit Shackle - Ranged(30ft) Ghost Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target is bound to the ground for 1d6 rounds.

Sucker Punch - Melee Dark Attack: 1/day 3d8. Sucker Punch is used as a Reaction. When you are a target of a melee move, use Sucker Punch to attack the attacker before the enemy rolls their Accuracy Check against you. You must still roll an accuracy check for Sucker Punch.

Leaf Blade - Melee Grass Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Leaf Blade is a critical hit.

Decidueye are incredibly skilled at both stealth and archery. When a Decidueye decides upon a target, it will seemingly disappear from view as it begins to stalk it from afar. Once its victim completely loses track of it, it will strike with a single arrow quill, plucking it from within its wing and stringing it on its vine-like tassels. Decidueye can nock and shoot within a tenth of a second, and can expertly curve their arrow quills to strike unsuspecting foes. Decidueye can fire barrages of arrows into the air so that they rain down on many foes beneath them. Though they no longer are as fussy as Dartrix and usually remain calm and collected, they can sometimes become very flustered when taken by surprise. They sometimes pull on the vine on their head as a security blanket of sorts to improve their focus.

Decidueye (Legend)

Grass / Fighting - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Flight, (melee range is threated as Ranged(30ft) *This ability is different than usual for Decidueye.), Sprouter, Stealth (can make stealth skill checks)

Passives: Feather Dance, Nasty Plot, Overgrow

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)

Brave Bird - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

Triple Arrows - Ranged(30ft) Fighting Attack: 3/day 1d12. Triple Arrows is a Scatter attack. Up to 3 attacks. Triple Arrow's third attack on hit deals an additional 1d12 damage. On hit, any target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Leaf Blade - Melee Grass Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Leaf Blade is a critical hit.

35

Grookey / Thwackey / Rillaboom 

Grookey

Grass - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Overgrow (When you are below 20 HP, your Grass-type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Scratch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Branch Poke - Melee Grass Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Taunt - Ranged(20ft) Dark Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target may only use attacks that target you or your allies for 1 min.

Thwackey

Grass - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Climber

Passives: Growl, Screech (+2 Attack), Overgrow

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Knock Off - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target drops any held items or weapons.

Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Slam has -2 during Accuracy Check.

Uproar - Ranged(20ft burst) Normal Special Attack: 1/day 3d10. Uproar is a three-turn move. On each of its turns, you can move normally, then roll Uproar's accuracy check and damage. Sleeping Pokťmon within range of Uproar are awoken and Pokťmon cannot go to Sleep within Uproar's range.

Grookey are enthusiastic, curious Pokťmon that enjoy exploring their surroundings. They can be a bit mischievous at times, but they always mean well. After Grookey are born, they grab a stick from a nearby tree and carry it with them for the rest of their lives. These sticks become infused with Grookey energy by being around them; when Grookey beat their sticks on the ground, nearby plants that have wilted will begin to revitalize. In the wild, Grookey live in troops with others of their kind. Their green fur contains chlorophyll and synthesizes sunlight into energy. Grookey troops can be heard from afar drumming in time on hard fruit. In combat, Grookey will strike foes with their sticks in a rhythmic pattern, growing in strength as they stay on the beat.

36

Thwackey troops are loud and rambunctious, filling tropical rainforests with the percussive sounds of their stickbeating. They are adventurous, though they maintain their easy-going dispositions when out of combat. Upon evolution from Grookey, their single sticks have become two, allowing them to create more complex rhythms. They keep these sticks tied in their heads when not in use. Thwackey love fast beats, and those that can drum up quicker tempos while still staying in time will win respect from other members of the troops. Thwackey will collect objects of varying densities that make sounds of different timbres when hit to improve the range of their drumming. They are constantly practicing their rhythm by keeping time out of combat, walking and eating to the beat. In battle, their personalities shift and become more focused. Thwackey will get so engrossed in the rhythm of combat that they will sometimes fail to notice that they have already knocked out their foes. Thwackey troops share close bonds with one another and are inseparable.

Rillaboom

Grass - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 15

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Climber, Strength (very strong)
Passives: Growl, Screech, Grassy Surge (As a free action you may deplete one use of Grassy Terrain and use Grassy Terrain.), Overgrow

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Drum Beating - Melee Grass Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Boomburst - Ranged(25ft burst) Normal Special Attack: 1/

Thanks to Rillaboom energy, their two sticks have mor- day 3d12. Anyone within range of Boomburst is cured of

phed to include a stump drum. They will imbue these

Sleep.

stumps with their energy, allowing them to control the growth of plants nearby by beating on them. Rillaboom can also control the roots of their stumps in combat and use them to throw foes. In a troop, the Rillaboom who has dis-

Endeavor - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day. On hit, if the target has more HP than you, the target's HP is set to equal your HP.

played the best drumming technique becomes the leader. These Pokťmon value group harmony and cooperation, working together to beat out exhilarating performances in

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Jungles

jungle clearings. Though they dislike pointless quarreling, Evolution: Grookey

Thwackey

Rillaboom

they will fiercely defend allies in peril. Other Pokťmon will

congregate around performing Rillaboom to watch them Proficiencies: Grass / Bruiser (Thwackey / Rillaboom)

drum and dance along. It is said that as long as these Pokť-

/ Sound

mon are drumming, the rules of nature are temporarily

suspended, and predator and prey will dance together as

companions.

This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2. 37

Sprigatito / Floragato / Meowscarada 

Sprigatito

Grass - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Alluring (attracts others with their aroma), Sprouter (can manipulate plant life)

Passives: Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Overgrow (When you are below 20 HP, your Grass-type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +3) Scratch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Leafage - Ranged(20ft) Grass Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Floragato

Grass - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Alluring, Sprouter

Passives: Tail Whip, Overgrow

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Magical Leaf - Ranged(25ft) Grass Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.

Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.

Grassy Terrain - Grass Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Grassy Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Anyone who acts within the Grassy terrain recovers 1d12 HP after acting. Within the Grassy Terrain, Grass-type attacks deal an additional 8 damage. This terrain disappears after 2 mins.

Sprigatito are rambunctious Pokťmon that love being the center of attention. Chlorophyll in their fur allows them to photosynthesize while sunbathing. Sprigatito moisten their fur when grooming themselves to facilitate this process. They particularly focus on keeping the region around their face wet. When Sprigatito knead their paws, they release a disarming aroma that causes foes to lose their will to fight. This scent is believed to have therapeutic qualities and becomes stronger when Sprigatito are in direct sunlight. When Sprigatito notice their trainers doting on other Pokťmon, they can become sullen and stop responding to orders. Navigating their mercurial temperaments can be a bit of a challenge for beginning trainers.

38

Floragato maintain their temperamental personalities upon evolution, but gain intelligence as well. These wily Pokťmon will intentionally misbehave to gain their trainers' attentions--for instance, by wrapping them in vines while they sleep. They are also more focused on honing their sleight of hand. Floragato keep a vine hidden in their long fur, leaving only the hard flower bud on its tip exposed. They extend and swing their vines to slam the buds into foes from all sorts of angles in battle, as well as to amuse people and Pokťmon out of it. Floragato strive to earn the attention of others, and consider a bored audience a fault of their own talent. Because of this, they are surprisingly hard workers despite their laidback appearances. In battle, Floragato harden their fur into needlelike spikes; the stiffness of their hairs is a sign of how tense or relaxed Floragato are. They often utilize techniques learned for show in combat as surprise attacks, and equally as often perform modified fighting move to impress onlookers.

Meowscarada

Grass / Dark - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7 Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 12 Special Attack: 8

Skills: Alluring, Sprouter
Passives: Tail Whip, Overgrow, Protean (You may change your types to the same type as an attack you are making while making it for 10 mins.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +4, Effect +6)

Meowscarada are masters of sleight of hand, holding all sorts of tricks up their sleeves for both battles and performances. These Pokťmon remain as fond of the spotlight and aim to make battles as exciting as possible with flashy tricks. Misdirection is their most common tactic; after distracting opponents, they will plant flower bombs packed with pollen upon their bodies. The bombs explode before their foes even realize they've been fooled. The inner linings of their capes are reflective, allowing Meowscarada to hide the stems of their flowers. This makes them appear as if they are floating. Meowscarada utilize this illusion to attack foes from multiple angles and keep them guessing as to where they and their flowers will move next. In a pinch, these Pokťmon can even make themselves seemingly disappear in a well-timed explosion of pollen. Though proud, these affectionate Pokťmon are very attached to their trainers and grow jealous easily.

Night Slash - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Night Slash is a critical hit.
Play Rough - Melee Fairy Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Attack is -1 for 10 mins.
Flower Trick - Ranged(30ft) Grass Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, Flower Trick always counts as a critical hit. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Forest / Grasslands

Evolution: Sprigatito

Floragato

Meowscarada

Proficiencies: Grass / Dark (Meowscarada) / Floral (Meowscarada) / Weird (Meowscarada)

39

Charmander / Charmeleon / Charizard 

Charmander

Fire - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire), Sinker (can't swim)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Blaze (When you are below 20 HP, your Fire type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Scratch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Smoke Screen - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. Place up to 25 contiguous ft of Smoke Screen Wall. Smoke Screen Wall has no thickness, is 12 ft tall and has the following ability: Attacks that target through or within the wall have -2 during Accuracy Check. This Wall disappears after 2 mins.

Charmeleon

Fire - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Firestarter, Sinker

Passives: Growl, Blaze

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +4)
Dragon Rage - Ranged(5ft) Dragon Special Attack: 3/day 25. Do not add bonuses of any kind to this damage.

Charmander are rare Pokťmon not often found in the wild, making their homes in volcanoes and mountains-particularly those with nooks and crags that can easily provide protection from the weather. This is because the flames on their tails are directly linked to their well-being. A flame that burns brightly signals a healthy Pokťmon, while a dim, sputtering flame indicates a sickly one. Charmander will supposedly die if their fires go out. Their flames steam when in high humidity, warning them of potential danger. These flames also indicate their emotions. Gently wavering flames signal happiness, while blazing tails mean anger. Despite being Fire-types, Charmander are not immune to fire; infant ones, in fact, often burn themselves on their own tails. However, like many Fire-types, they do have an affinity for hot things, and their skin does toughen as they age.

Fire Fang - Melee Fire Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is randomly either Stunned or Burned.

Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.

40

Wild Charmeleon have been described as "vicious," "barbaric," and perhaps most fittingly, "hot-headed." They can easily raise the surrounding ambient temperature to uncomfortable levels simply by swinging their tails around. Charmeleon attack by knocking their foes down with their blazing tails and slashing them mercilessly with their sharp claws, not ceasing until their enemies are thoroughly beaten. In their fervor, their tails often begin to burn a bluishwhite; at night, they can light up mountainsides like stars if groups of them are present. Enraged Charmeleon often take out their anger on their surroundings, incinerating anything flammable around them with unrestrained flames. This stage is often likened to a human's teenage years--moody and reckless. For trainers, reining in disobedient Charmeleon can be extremely challenging. However, with proper care and treatment, a trainer can earn the respect of a Charmeleon, and eventually its obedience as well.

Charizard

Fire / Flying - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Firestarter, Flight (can fly), Sinker

Passives: Growl, Blaze, Solar Power (While in Sunny weather, you deal an additional 4 damage while attacking. After acting in Sunny weather, you take 4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)

Wing Attack - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d8.

Charizard can spew powerful flames that can melt boul- Flamethrower - Ranged(20ft beam) Fire Special Attack: 3/

ders and glaciers--and rather unfortunately, also easily and day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy

unintentionally start forest fires. A Charizard's flame tem- Check, the target is Burned.

perature increases with training, and it is said that Charizard that have experienced particularly brutal battles have even hotter flames. Like Charmeleon, an enraged Charizard's flames can burn a whitish-blue. Unlike them, however, Charizard can more easily control their tempers; they will

Fire Spin - Ranged(20ft) Fire Special Attack: 3/day 1d4. On hit, the target is bound in place for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 special damage on its turns.

nobly never attack foes weaker than themselves without

reason. Charizard can fly almost 4,600 feet (1,400 meters) Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 into the air, soaring far above the mountains and volcanoes Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Mountains / Volcanoes they call home.

Evolution: Charmander

Charmeleon

Charizard

Proficiencies: Fire / Flying (Charizard) / Draconian (Charizard) / Slashing (Charmeleon / Charizard ) / Winged (Charizard)

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2.
41

Cyndaquil / Quilava / Typhlosion 

Cyndaquil

Fire - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire), Sinker (can't swim)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Blaze (When you are below 20 HP, your Fire type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Smoke Screen - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. Place up to 25 contiguous ft of Smoke Screen Wall. Smoke Screen Wall has no thickness, is 12 ft tall and has the following ability: Attacks that target through or within the wall have -2 during Accuracy Check. This Wall disappears after 2 mins.

Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.

Quilava

Fire - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Firestarter, Sinker Passives: Defense Curl (+1 Defense), Leer, Blaze
Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +4)

Cyndaquil are extremely rare in the wild. They are very timid creatures; their first reaction to anything new is to run away and curl up into balls. If angered or startled, the flames on their backs will erupt. They burn vigorously most of the time, but will sputter and die out sporadically if the Pokťmon are tired. If the flames are not enough to deter enemies, Cyndaquil can also use smoke to cloak themselves and buy time to flee. They rarely fight back, due to their flighty natures, but may attack with puffs of fire when cornered. Trainers must be careful when raising Cyndaquil, as they are easily startled and frightened Cyndaquil will instinctively flare up their backs. Despite this potential problem, they can be very playful and cheerful, if a bit skittish.

Swift - Ranged(20ft) Normal Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.

Flame Charge - Melee Fire Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins.

Rollout - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Rollout against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Rollout's damage.

42

Quilava retain the general personalities that they had as Cyndaquil, but replace their skittishness with caution. They are extremely wary of new situations, and will react to nearly any sign of danger. However, instead of curling up into balls, Quilava prefer to fight back. In battle, when Quilava turn their backs against their opponents, they are preparing to flare up their backs. These flames burn hotter in combat. Their fur is also nonflammable and does not conduct heat, allowing them to keep their fires burning for long periods of time. This fur is notably very soft. Quilava are also very agile, allowing them to maneuver around attacks thrown at them. When battling, they scorch the ground, leaving behind lingering trails of fire that could provide barriers against opponents.

Typhlosion

Fire - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Firestarter, Sinker

Passives: Defense Curl, Leer, Blaze, Flash Fire (You are immune to Fire-type attacks. If you would be hit by a Firetype attack, your Fire type attacks deal +4 damage for 2 mins.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)

Flamethrower - Ranged(20ft beam) Fire Special Attack: 3/ day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Double Edge - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

Eruption - Ranged(30ft burst) Fire Special Attack: 1/day 3d10. If you are at Max HP, Eruption has 5d12 for damage instead.

Typhlosion (Legend)

Typhlosion are extremely territorial and will not hesitate to attack anything that enters their domains with the powerful plumes of fire. When enraged, they heat up to extraordinarily high temperatures, causing the air to shimmer around them and setting anything they touch ablaze. By rubbing their blazing fur against itself, they can create explosions that incinerate everything nearby. Brutal fights between two Typhlosion over territory can sometimes devastate acres of grasslands. These Pokťmon will flare up their manes to determine dominance; the individuals with larger manes gain control of the land, unless the losers decide to fight it out in battle. They are highly protective of their young, caring for them until adolescence, and will destroy anything they see as threats to them. Despite their aggressive tendencies, Typhlosion are also extremely loyal and will defend their trainers with all their strength.

Fire / Ghost - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 12

Skills: Firestarter, Sinker

Passives: Defense Curl, Leer, Blaze, Flash Fire

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +6, Effect +5)

Flamethrower - Ranged(20ft beam) Fire Special Attack: 3/ day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Hex - Ranged(15ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target is afflicted, Hex has 5d8 for damage instead.

Infernal Parade - Ranged(30ft) Ghost Special Attack: 1/day 3d8. If the target is afflicted, Infernal Parade has 3d12 for damage instead. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Monster, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Grasslands / Volcanoes

Evolution: Cyndaquil

Quilava

Typhlosion,

mysterious circumstances Typhlosion (Legend)

Proficiencies: Fire / Ghost (Typhlosion (Legend)) . / Stampeding (Quilava / Typhlosion / Typhlosion (Legend))

43

Torchic / Combusken / Blaziken 

Torchic

Fire - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight) Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Blaze (When you are below 20 HP, your Fire type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Scratch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.
Peck - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Combusken

Fire / Fighting - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Firestarter

Passives: Bulk Up (+1 Attack, +1 Defense), Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Growl, Blaze

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)
Double Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 2d8. Double Kick is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.
Flame Charge - Melee Fire Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins.
Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.

Torchic trainers will quickly learn that, while endearing, their quirkiness can also be a source of worry. Torchic have some trouble walking and will always be a few steps behind their trainers, wobbling around with unsteady steps. They are also afraid of the dark, and will begin crying if left alone at night. They have internal flame sacs that burn like ovens, hot enough to scorch foes black when they attack. Their feathers are soft and downy, almost like stuffed dolls. Trainers who have raised Torchic describe embracing them a warm plushie.

44

Combusken have very distinctive, harsh cries that are well-known to many rural inhabitants. This is due to their training habits; early in the morning, Combusken will go running through plains and mountains to strengthen their legs and thighs. Then, they prepare for kicking practice by letting out loud yells to gain focus. These cries often wake people and Pokťmon in the early hours in the morning, much to their dismay. In combat, they will not relent until their foes have surrendered. Combusken also spew flames from their mouths in battle. When fighting, their bodies heat up; they release this excess heat in the form of flames. Combusken are also known to use their distinctive cries to intimidate and bewilder foes. Watching two trained Combusken fight was a popular pastime among trainers in older times.

Blaziken

Fire / Fighting - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 13 Special Attack: 11

Skills: Firestarter

Passives: Bulk Up, Focus Energy, Speed Boost (+2 Speed), Blaze

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)

Blaziken instinctually have developed their own martial art. Their legs are sturdy enough to leap great distances, and their arms have become much stronger as well. In battle, flames erupt from their wrists and envelop their knuckles, allowing them to pummel foes with fiery punches that can scorch and burn. The stronger their foes are, the stronger these flames burn, and the more determined Blaziken are to defeat them. Their ankles can also similarly ignite, enabling them to land fiery kicks as well as punches if necessary. Every few years, their feathers burn off from repeated exposure to fire. However, newer, softer ones regrow in their place. These feathers are important because they help Blaziken regulate their body temperatures; when they burn up, they must rest and refrain from using their fire powers until they regrow.

Blaze Kick - Melee Fire Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.
Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.
Brave Bird - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Flying, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Savannas / Volcanoes

Evolution: Torchic

Combusken

Blaziken

Proficiencies: Fire / Fighting (Combusken / Blaziken) / Avian / Martial (Blaziken / No Electric or Ice-type moves)

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 45

Chimchar / Monferno / Infernape 

Chimchar

Fire - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain), Firestarter (can create fire), Sinker (can't swim)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Blaze (When you are below 20 HP, your Fire type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Scratch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Taunt - Ranged(20ft) Dark Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target may only use attacks that target you or your allies for 1 min.

Monferno

Fire / Fighting - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Climber, Firestarter, Sinker

Passives: Leer, Blaze

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +4)
Mach Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. Mach Punch has Priority.
Fury Swipes - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Fury Swipes has -2 during Accuracy Check. Fury Swipes is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Chimchar are have vivacious, carefree natures. They are "balls of energy", so to speak; they love to play around and have fun, even when in battle. They are very agile, capable of leaping across ravines and scaling up cliff faces in mountains. Chimchar are social Pokťmon, almost always found with others of their kind leaping around on trees and boulders. The fires on their rears are fueled by gases within their bodies; as long as they can continue supplying gas, the flames won't go out, even in rain. When Chimchar are sick, however, they have trouble producing enough gas to keep their fires burning; their flames will sputter and burn weakly as a result. Their fires will only go out when they are asleep, likely to prevent themselves from accidentally igniting brushfires while resting. Their playful natures also carry into battle; they will often goof around and not take commands seriously.

Flame Wheel - Melee Fire Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

46

Monferno love to play around. However, they have become much more perceptive of the situations they are in and have learned to handle themselves more seriously in battle. Monferno are adept fighters, using both their flames and fists to defeat opponents. They can take advantage of their environments to the fullest extent, jumping off of walls and ceilings to attack foes aerially from unexpected angles. By enlarging the flames on their tails, Monferno can make themselves appear bigger to intimidate attackers. They also use this technique for spacing, warding foes off by making their flames bigger or drawing them closer by feigning exhaustion and weakening their fires. In the wild, Monferno live in packs of roughly a dozen members each with rigid pecking orders. Individuals are ranked based on the sizes of their flames when fully lit and the brightness of the blue "masks" on their faces; Monferno with the largest flames and the brightest masks are ranked the highest. Monferno in troops train each other by sparring in mock fights.

Infernape

Fire / Fighting - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 11

Skills: Climber, Firestarter, Sinker

Passives: Calm Mind (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense), Leer, Blaze, Iron Fist (Your punching attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)

Close Combat - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Defense and Special Defense are -2 for 10 mins.

Flare Blitz - Melee Fire Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal and if you got
18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Infernape are disciplined, skilled fighters. Infernape practices a unique form of martial art to their species involving all of their limbs. They use their great agility to toss foes around while pummeling them from all angles. They

Punishment - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 2d10. Punishment deals an additional 1d10 damage for each Stat Passive the target has.

are capable of cloaking their limbs in flames to scorch foes

with physical attacks. The crowns of fire on their heads

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate -

burn more intensely as they become more heated in battle. 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Mountains

These flames cannot be extinguished and are said to represent their undying, fiery spirits in combat. Outside of battle,

Evolution: Chimchar

Monferno

Infernape

Infernape retain the playful demeanors of their pre-

Proficiencies: Fire / Fighting (Monferno / Infernape)

evolutions. They will quickly assume more somber per-

/ Martial (Infernape / No Ice-type moves)

sonas, however, when threatened, as their battling spirits

overtake their bodies.

47

Tepig / Pignite / Emboar 

Tepig

Fire - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire), Tracker (can follow scents)

Passives: Defense Curl (+1 Defense), Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Blaze (When you are below 20 HP, your Fire type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.
Odor Sleuth - Self Normal Effect: At-Will. You can hit Ghost -types with Normal and Fighting type moves as if they are not immune to those types of attacks for two mins.

Pignite

Fire / Fighting - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Firestarter, Sinker (can't swim), Tracker

Passives: Defense Curl, Tail Whip, Blaze

Tepig are often referred to as "laid-back" and "bashful." In the wild, Tepig wander idly through fields and grasslands in search of Berries. When they find some, they roast them with fire before consuming them. Tepig can be deceptively nimble when necessary, capable of leaping away of incoming attacks. They shoot fireballs out of their nostrils to deter foes. When ill, however, they will begin spewing black smoke instead. Though initially shy, Tepig are quick to warm up to new things and are very easily. They have been known to burn Berries by snorting too much fire when roasting them due to enthusiasm.

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Arm Thrust - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 1d4. Arm Thrust has -2 during Accuracy Check. Arm Thrust is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Flame Charge - Melee Fire Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins.

Rollout - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Rollout against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Rollout's damage.

48

Pignite spend much of their time eating; they have internal fires constantly burning in their bellies, so they must eat regularly in order to maintain these flames. Their attacks become stronger as their fires burn hotter. When in danger or upset, Pignite can force their fires to flare up and burn through stored lipids in order to unleash powerful attacks. Their movements also become sharper and more agile as their flames intensify. Pignite are also skilled fighters, particularly when it comes to wrestling. They are close-range brawlers; though capable of shooting flames from a distance, they prefer to attack foes using their limbs or even their whole bodies. When Pignite begin to feel hungry, their internal fires will weaken from lack of fuel. Consequently, they will become sluggish and their attacks will weaken. Pignite trainers are advised to always carry around fat-rich snacks in case their Pokťmon begin to feel famished.

Emboar

Fire / Fighting - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 66 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Firestarter, Sinker, Strength (very strong), Tracker

Passives: Defense Curl, Tail Whip, Blaze, Reckless (Your attacks that damage yourself on hit, deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)

Though they appear intimidating, Emboar are very friendly Pokťmon--if a bit impulsive at times. They are very active, spending most of their days either eating or training.

Assurance - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target was already attacked this round, Assurance deals +1d8 damage.

Their fists are highly resistant to heat; the red bands on

Head Smash - Melee Rock Attack: 1/day 7d12. On hit, you

their wrists secrete a highly flammable substance that coat lose HP equal to half of the damage you deal. Head

their hands. In combat, Emboar touch their hands to their Smash has -2 during Accuracy Check.

flaming beards, igniting them and allowing them to pummel opponents with flaming fists. Emboar are adept at many types of combat, switching between using their arms, feet, or entire bodies frequently to bewilder foes. They are

Flare Blitz - Melee Fire Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal and if you got
18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

capable of cloaking their bodies in flames to ram into foes

by using flaming tackles and can also let loose streams of

flames from their nostrils. Emboar are protective of their friends, often using their large bodies to shield them from harm. Their fiery beards flare up when they feel strong emotions.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Fields / Grasslands

Evolution: Tepig

Pignite

Emboar

Proficiencies: Fire / Fighting (Pignite / Emboar) / Bruiser (Pignite / Emboar) / Martial (No Punches/Kicks) / Stampeding (Emboar)

49

Fennekin / Braixen / Delphox 

Fennekin

Fire - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire),

Passives: Howl (+1 Attack), Blaze (When you are below 20 HP, your Fire type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Scratch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Flame Charge - Melee Fire Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins.

Braixen

Fire - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Firestarter

Passives: Howl, Blaze

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)

Fire Spin - Ranged(20ft) Fire Special Attack: 3/day 1d4. On hit, the target is bound in place for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 special damage on its turns.

Many trainers who encounter Fennekin and like them for their cuteness are surprised by their bouts of moodiness-- Fennekin are known to be rather unpredictable in their personalities, being easygoing at one moment yet irritable at another. Despite their temperamental tendencies, however, these Pokťmon always try their absolute best in battle and hate disappointing their trainers. Fennekin dispel excess heat through their ears, which can warm the air passing through them. These Pokťmon have a curious diet-- they subsist primarily on dry twigs, which they seek out constantly, even chewing on them while walking about. They combust the sticks they eat within their bodies to create fire. To intimidate foes, Fennekin will puff out hot air from their ears, causing the tufts of fur in them to glow faintly.

Psybeam - Ranged(15ft beam) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Light Screen - Ranged(30ft) Psychic Effect: 3/day. Place 40ft of contiguous Light Screen Wall. Light Screen Wall is see through, 12 ft tall, and has the following ability: Special Attacks that target through this wall deal 10 less damage. This Wall disappears after 2 mins.

50

When Fennekin evolve into Braixen, they stop eating sticks as their primary source of nutrition--in fact, Braixen are incapable of digesting the cellulose of wood at all. However, these Pokťmon still demonstrate an affinity for twigs, keeping on in their tails at all times. These twigs appear to function as security blankets of sorts for Braixen, helping temper the mood swings they experienced as Fennekin. If a Braixen loses its stick, it will become fretful, anxious, and even angry. When Braixen pull their twigs out from their tails, the friction of the action ignites the tips of the sticks, giving them a makeshift torch. They use this burning stick to defend themselves from enemies. Braixen can wave the blazing branch in front of their mouths while breathing fire in order to increase the strength of their flames. Braixen will also use their twigs to communicate with others, which is useful considering these Pokťmon are nocturnal. Sticking the twigs back in their flame-resistant tails will put out the flame through oxygen deprivation.

Delphox

Fire / Psychic - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Firestarter, Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)

Passives: Howl, Blaze, Magician (When hitting with a melee attack, you steal the target's held item, if any.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)

Mystical Fire - Ranged(20ft) Fire Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Will-O-Wisp - Ranged(10ft) Fire Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Burned.

Delphox are remarkably calm and collected. Delphox

Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.

carry wand-like sticks that they can ignite with psychic ener- On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

gy. When not in use, they store these sticks within the tufts

of fur on their wrists. Delphox can stare at the fire at the Biology: Egg Group - Field / Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate -

tips of their branches to achieve a heightened state of fo- 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Deserts / Forests

cus and glance into the future. They can further focus their psychic energy on these flames to create magic flames or

Evolution: Fennekin

Braixen

Delphox

create flaming vortexes, entrapping and incinerating foes Proficiencies: Fire / Psychic (Braixen / Delphox)

within. Delphox always leave observers stunned with their

/ Hexwork (Braixen / Delphox)

impressive grace and composure, both during and outside

/ Spellcraft (Braixen / Delphox)

of battle.

51

Litten / Torracat / Incineroar 

Litten

Fire - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Leer (+1 Attack), Blaze (When you are below 20 HP, your Fire type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Scratch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Lick - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d8. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Torracat

Fire - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Firestarter

Passives: Growl, Leer, Blaze

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +4, Effect +4)

Fire Fang - Melee Fire Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is randomly either Stunned or Burned.

Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Swagger - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.

Litten are known for their level-headedness and lack of outward displays of emotion. They secrete flammable oils from their skin that coats their fur. When they lick and groom themselves, they store some of this fur within their stomachs, forming furballs. Litten can cough up and ignite these furballs to shoot fireballs at foes; the size of these attacks depends on the amount of fur collected, while the way they are launched depends on how they are coughed up. Instead of shedding their fur gradually like most felines, Litten will ignite all of their fur at once in a fierce but quick blaze. Though they tend to have collected natures, it can be difficult to gain trust from a Litten because of how distant and solitary they are. Many find that Litten respond best to a moderate amount of attention; they remain aloof with too little care, but are put off if smothered.

52

Torracat often act somewhat bratty around familiar faces. Some would even call them spoiled; they may even scratch their friends or trainers if they displease them. Torracat also have gained a burning desire for combat. In battle, they will not stop fighting until their opponents lose their will to continue battling. Torracat use their thick manes, which have actually adapted to take the place of standard whiskers, to navigate dark areas. This helps them locate prey in the dim undergrowth of their jungle habitats or under the cover of dark nights. Torracat also possess external flame sacs that adorn their necks. When they utilize Firetype attacks, these sacs flare up and quickly begin to heat, allowing them to begin spewing flames within seconds. The sound of fire being expelled from these sacs is said to be akin to that of a brass bell. These organs also heat up and cool down depending on their emotions. When Torracat enter the fervor of battle, their passion keeps their flame sacs burning at maximum brightness. Their fur will stand on end when Torracat healthy and happy, but lie flat and matted when they are sick or upset.

Incineroar
Fire / Dark - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Firestarter

Passives: Intimidate (+1 Defense), Leer, Blaze

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)

Darkest Lariat - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Flare Blitz - Melee Fire Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal and if you got
18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Incineroar have "flame belts," named so because of their resemblance to wrestling championship belts. These belts ignite as these Pokťmon engage in intense battles. Incineroar live for the heat of battle; they can become so engrossed in fights that they may ignore their trainers' orders in favor of their own. Perhaps even more so than fighting, though, Incineroar love the adoration of others. They fight most fiercely when watched by a crowd, using grand kicks and punches before finishing off foes with showy, fiery spirals from their belts. Though they try to seem aloof on the outside, the love of young children and other Pokťmon gratifies them greatly. They get very depressed when heckled, however. Incineroar also lose the will to fight when faced with weaker foes; they much prefer the challenge of facing opponents as strong as or even stronger than themselves.

Cross Chop - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. Cross Chop has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, Cross Chop is a critical hit.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate 10 Days, Diet - Carnivore, Habitat - Grasslands / Jungles

Evolution: Litten

Torracat

Incineroar

Proficiencies: Fire / Dark (Torracat / Incineroar) / Bruiser / Martial (No Punches/Kicks) (Incineroar)

53

Scorbunny / Raboot / Cinderace 

Scorbunny

Fire - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Blaze (When you are below 20 HP, your Fire type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.
Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.
Double Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 2d8. Double Kick is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.

Raboot

Fire - Medium (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Firestarter

Passives: Growl, Blaze

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)
Counter - Melee Fighting Effect: 1/day. Counter is used as a Reaction. After an enemy hits you with a melee Attack move that deals damage, use Counter to deal exactly twice the damage to the enemy that you received. Do not apply weakness or resistances.

Scorbunny are energetic Pokťmon that can rarely stay still for long. They can usually be seen hopping from one foot to the other, if not racing back and forth around the area. These Pokťmon have pads on the soles of their feet that radiate heat, scorching the ground beneath them as they run; a similar pad also exists on their noses. They take time to heat up, however, as the contents of Scorbunny's flame sacs are viscous and need to soften before use. For this reason, Scorbunny may need to warm up before battles by running laps. This increases their heart rate and body temperatures, helping them reach their full potentials. These flame sacs are sometimes called their "second hearts" due to their importance. In combat, Scorbunny run circles around their opponents to bewilder them before delivering burning kicks.

Flame Charge - Melee Fire Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins.

Headbutt - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

54

Raboot are agile Pokťmon that can sometimes be seen racing across grasslands. They can leap high up in the air to kick Berries off of tree branches. Then, they will practice their footwork by juggling the Berries with their feet without letting them touch the ground. Raboot have thick fur that help keep them warm during cold winter months. It also keeps their flame sacs insulated so that once they are warmed up, they can stay heated for longer periods of time than as Scorbunny. Raboot spend time channeling their boundless energy into practice. These Pokťmon are never satisfied with the quality of their kicks and can always find ways to improve. Raboot keep their hands tucked in and avoid using them in battle; this also helps them stay insulated. In combat, they will kick flaming stones towards opponents to scorch them, trying to score hits from unexpected angles in order to keep their foes on guard. The heated pads on their feet and the bands on the heads let them deliver both scorching kicks and headbutts. Raboot that develop new techniques for kicking will closely guard their secrets from other Raboot in order to maintain an edge in battle.

Cinderace
Fire - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 48 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 14 (70 ft.) Attack: 12 Special Attack: 7

Skills: Firestarter

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Growl, Blaze, Libero (You may change your type to the same types as an attack you are making while making it for 10 mins.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +7)

Double Edge - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

Bounce - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Bounce is a two-

turn move. On the first turn, raise yourself 40 ft into the

air. On the second turn, return to the ground, move up to

Cinderace are famed for their incredible skill during bat- twice your movement rate, then you may roll Bounce's tle. They can use their great agility and wide arsenal of kick- Accuracy Check and damage. On hit, if you got 14 or highing techniques to launch burning stones at opponents from er on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

all sorts of angles. They have strong cores and legs, allowing them to launch powerful blows with their feet. Cinderace will juggle pebbles between their feet to heat them up and feign attacks to keep their foes guessing. They are

Pyro Ball - Ranged(40ft) Fire Attack: 1/day 5d12. Pyro Ball has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

skilled at both offense and defense and love the cheering

of a crowd. However, they have a tendency to show off their skills in front of an audience, sometimes at the expense of the battle itself. Still, Cinderace are have an in-

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Grasslands

tensely competitive spirit and will not give up a fight no matter what. Win or lose, they are good sports that can

Evolution: Scorbunny

Raboot

Cinderace

recognize a stronger foe and learn from their mistakes in Proficiencies: Fire / Kicks (Raboot / Cinderace)

battle.

/ Munition (Raboot / Cinderace)

This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2. 55

Fuecoco / Crocalor / Skeledirge 

Fuecoco

Fire - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Blaze (When you are below 20 HP, your Fire type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.
Lick - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d8. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Crocalor

Fire - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Firestarter

Passives: Leer, Blaze

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +2)
Snarl - Ranged(5ft burst) Dark Special Attack: At-Will 1d8. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.
Roar - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, Pokťmon that are smaller than you will not want to fight and will attempt to run away from you.
Incinerate - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if the target is holding a Berry, you destroy it.

Fuecoco are laid-back. Unlike most Fire-types, Fuecoco actually gather much of their heat from their environments rather than generating it within themselves. These Pokťmon sunbathe on warm rocks, conducting heat from the surrounding air and stone via the square scales on their stomachs and backs. These scales are always warm to the touch, and can in fact get quite hot when full of heat. As their flame sacs are small, they cannot store much at once; the excess energy leaks out of small indentations on the tops of their heads as flickering flames. When Fuecoco get excited, they begin to spurt more, larger flames. Conversely, when they are tired and low on energy, these flames will sputter or even go out entirely. Their easygoing demeanors make Fuecoco a great choice for new trainers.

56

The flames spurting from Crocalor heads take on a curious shape--a fireball shaped like an egg, resting on a nestlike wreath of flames. Why they assume this form is unknown, but in any case, they are quite proud of them and enjoy showing them off to new people and Pokťmon. They can also shoot the egg-shape out in attacks to burn foes. These Pokťmon are much livelier and more sociable after evolving, and enjoy being around others. Crocalor also have larger flame sacs than their pre-evolutions, and their vocal cords connect directly into them. When Crocalor let out throaty cries, they simultaneously spew flames all over. Battles with Crocalor can be quite cacophonous because of this. Unfortunately, they lack fine control of both their voices as well as their fire-spitting, and it takes them a great deal of practice to get them both under control.

Skeledirge

Fire / Ghost - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Firestarter

Passives: Leer, Blaze, Flame Body (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Burn the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)

Despite their fearsome appearances, Skeledirge maintain much of the joviality and friendliness of their preevolutions. The fireballs on their heads have "hatched" into birds; this occurs when a soul inhabits them and brings them to life, also granting Skeledirge their Ghost-type. Skeledirge have finally mastered both their voices and their fire breathing, allowing them to sing beautifully haunting melodies as they release enchanting displays of fire. As they sing, the birds on their heads extend into fiery staffs that amplify their voices like microphones. Their songs are said to calm the soul and soothe over conflicts. Skeledirge love singing for old and new friends alike. In the wild, other Pokťmon will watch them practicing their songs in impromptu "concerts" of sorts.

Torch Song- Ranged(30ft) Fire Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, your Special Attack is +2 for 10 mins.
Shadow Ball - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Hyper Voice - Ranged(30ft beam) Normal Special Attack: 1/ day 3d12.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Monster, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Carnivore, Habitat - Desert / Grasslands

Evolution: Fuecoco

Crocalor

Skeledirge

Proficiencies: Fire / Ghost (Skeledirge) / Sound (Skeledirge) / Stampeding (Skeledirge)

57

Squirtle / Wartortle / Blastoise 

Squirtle

Water - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Swimmer (can swim)
Passives: Withdraw (+1 Defense), Torrent (When you are below 20 HP, your Water-type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Rapid Spin - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d8. Destroy any Hazards or Coats, and free bound allies within 5 ft. You may target Hazards, Coats, or bound allies with Rapid Spin without needing to roll Accuracy Check or damage.

Wartortle

Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Fountain, Swimmer

Passives: Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Torrent

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Water Pulse - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Skull Bash - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. Skull Bash is a two-turn move. On the first turn: Your Defense is increased to 15 until your next turn (do not decrease it if it is higher). On the second turn, move up to twice your movement speed, then roll Skull Bash's Accuracy Check and damage.

Squirtle are born with soft shells, and are vulnerable until these shells harden in a process that takes about a week or so. To protect themselves, they withdraw into their sturdy shells and attack with projectiles to scare off potential dangers. Their carapaces can defend from many attacks, protecting the Pokťmon from harm. Additionally, the smooth exteriors of the shells allow Squirtle to glide more swiftly and smoothly through the water. Though rare in the wild, they can occasionally be found around freshwater lakes and ponds, and even in slow-flowing rivers. A few isolated populations can be found on islands in the middle of the ocean, but these groups are rare and are exceptions rather than the norm.

58

As semi-aquatic Pokťmon, Wartortle can stay submerged underwater for long periods of time, holding air in the rich fur of their tails. These tails, rather humorously, stick out of their shells even when the rest of their bodies are withdrawn. They use water to cloak themselves before attacking prey and swiftly swimming after them, using their ears and tails to balance themselves. Wartortle tails are regarded as symbols of longevity since they're known to live for up to 100 years; it is thought that individuals with more deeply-colored tails and more algae on their shells are older. In the past, people would hunt Wartortle and hold locks of their tail fur in hopes of living long lives. Wartortle pride themselves on scratched shells, as they show toughness in battle. Generally, it is believed that the more scratches a Wartortle gains during this stage, the stronger it will be after evolution.

Blastoise

Water - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight) Hit Points: 48 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Fountain, Swimmer

Passives: Iron Defense, Rain Dish (If in Raining Weather, you regain 4 HP after you act.), Torrent

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +4)

Blastoise are powerful Pokťmon that are most famous Aqua Tail - Melee Water Attack: 1/day 3d12.

for the cannons on their backs. These cannons are stronger than fire hoses, and can shoot water sometimes up to 160 feet away. Additionally, Blastoise can use these cannons to jet themselves through the water to tackle foes at high speeds. Blastoise intentionally make themselves heavy for

Flash Cannon - Ranged(20ft) Steel Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Hydro Pump - Ranged(30ft beam) Water Special Attack: 1/

multiple reasons. Weight adds power to these jet-tackles, day 5d12. Hydro Pump has -2 during Accuracy Check un-

for example, and also allows them to crush foes on land. less it's Raining.

Most importantly, however it enables them to withstand

the recoil from their powerful cannon blasts. These blasts

are accurate as well as powerful; bullets of water shot from

these cannons can hit and destroy tin cans situated 160

Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Water 1, Egg Hatch Rate -

feet away. As a last resort, Blastoise can withdraw into their 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Lakes / Ponds

thick and sturdy shells for protection.

Evolution: Squirtle

Wartortle

Blastoise

Proficiencies: Ice / Water / Pulse (Blastoise) / Stampeding (Blastoise)

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2.
59

Totodile / Croconaw / Feraligatr 

Totodile

Water - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Torrent (When you are below 20 HP, your Water-type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)

Scratch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Croconaw

Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Fountain, Swimmer

Passives: Leer, Scary Face (+2 Speed), Torrent

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Rage - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.

Ice Fang - Melee Ice Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is randomly either Stunned or Frozen.

Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Totodile are energetic. They love to play--but unfortunately for most trainers, their favorite games almost all involve biting. They have the habit of chomping nearly anything novel that moves, and due to the raw strength of their jaws, they can often crush the things they bite. Wild Totodile that one may occasionally come across; while very playful and friendly with humans, they will snap at the arms and legs of people when they lower their guards to "investigate" the foreign beings. Though they are simply "playing," these bites can cause serious injury, sometimes even resulting in fractured bones. Even trained Totodile may occasionally crunch on and destroy possessions like watches, bags, phones, and on at least one recorded occasion, a Pokťdex.

60

Croconaw have increased bite strengths, but they luckily aren't as prone to biting everything they see. Croconaw have exactly 48 fangs, all of which are slanted inwards and curved like fishhooks. This angle makes it nearly impossible to remove Croconaw after they bite; they can refuse to let go after snapping onto anything, holding on until their fangs fall off. Luckily for them, though, these teeth can grow back in as little as a week. Croconaw can open their jaws wide enough to latch onto things nearly twice the size of their heads. When they swim, only the spiked crests on their heads and backs are visible; the rest of their bodies remain submerged underwater as they hunt underwater Water-types, their primary source of food. When not hunting, they are known to bite stones to test the strength of their jaws and teeth. Bite marks on rocks near lakeshores and riversides are signs of Croconaw territory. Loose, fishhook-shaped teeth lying on the ground and floating in the water are another sign that Croconaw are likely nearby.

Feraligatr

Water - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 12 Special Attack: 8

Skills: Fountain, Swimmer

Passives: Leer, Scary Face, Sheer Force (Your attacks that have additional effects that affect the target may deal +4 damage, but will not have those additional effects.), Torrent

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +4, Effect +5)

Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.

Feraligatr are more adept in the water than on land, but they are still capable of terrestrial travel. They can walk on both bipedally and quadrupedally, though they prefer the latter. However, when they spot enemies or prey, Feraligatr can quickly charge forward at a blinding speed on two legs to capture them between their powerful jaws, shaking their heads to tear up their victims. They can intimidate foes simply by opening their giant mouths and roaring; this display, along with the size of the red crests on their heads, is also used in displays of dominance. They can crush boulders with ease and can knock back foes with their powerful tail. Feraligatr swim with just the upper halves of their heads and their back crests above the water. They swish their powerful tails and arms to propel themselves while using their arms and legs to steer and stay afloat.

Aqua Tail - Melee Water Attack: 1/day 3d12.
Superpower - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Attack and Defense is -2 for 10 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Water 1, Egg Hatch Rate 10 Days, Diet - Carnivore, Habitat - Lakes / Rivers

Evolution: Totodile

Croconaw

Feraligatr

Proficiencies: Ice (Melee attacks) / Water / Elemental Attack I / Fang attacks (No Electric-type moves)

61

Mudkip / Marshtomp / Swampert 

Mudkip

Water - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Torrent (When you are below 20 HP, your Water-type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Mud-Slap - Ranged(5ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 1d6. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.

Marshtomp

Water / Ground - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Fountain, Gilled, Strength (very strong), Swimmer

Passives: Growl, Torrent

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Mud Shot - Ranged(10ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Bide - Ranged(25ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Bide is a three-turn move. On the first and second turns, do nothing. On the third turn, release energy; all characters within range take damage equal to twice the damage you took since the first turn of Bide.

Mudkip are deceptively strong for their size, able to lift large stones out of the water and crush them by planting themselves into the ground and heaving. The orange growths on the sides of their heads are gills, allowing Mudkip to breathe underwater; on land, they breathe using their mouths. They use their tail fins to accelerate themselves through the water. Their head fins, on the other hand, are primarily tasked with observation. These fins can sense both air and water currents, letting Mudkip navigate the murky waters they call home without being able to see their surroundings. Mudkip sleep by burying themselves in the mud. They spend roughly equal time on land and in the water, but must keep their skin moist so they don't dry out and become lethargic.

Take Down - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.

62

Marshtomp can often be found in muddy estuaries, both near the sea as well as inland. They spend much of their time out of the water; a sticky, mucus-like film coating their skin keeps them moist and prevents air from drying them out. To rehydrate, Marshtomp will play in the mud. Curiously enough, they can use their powerful hind legs to travel faster through mud than through clean water. These strengthened hind legs also enable them to walk bipedally, unlike Mudkip. In battle, Marshtomp attempt to lure foes into the mire rather than step out of it themselves, as they can easily overpower most foes on their home turfs. Marshtomp burrow in the mud to sleep. Individuals who live near the ocean sometimes emerge at low tide to play on the beach, while those inland may splash around at the water's edge.

Swampert

Water / Ground - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Fountain, Gilled, Groundshaper (can manipulate the ground), Strength, Swimmer
Passives: Growl, Damp (Chloroblast, Explosion, Misty Explosion, and Self-Destruct fail to do anything if used within 40ft of you.), Torrent

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)

Swampert make nests out of boulders on pristine beaches and on the edge of murky swamplands, hauling rocks with ease both on land and in the water. They can use their sturdy, rock-hard arms to shatter rocks as they create nests, and can hammer foes with similar swings of their

Muddy Water - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Water Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, any target's Accuracy Checks are -2 during their next turn.
Earthquake - Ranged(30ft burst) Ground Attack: 1/day 3d12.

arms as well. Swampert can singlehandedly tow boats stranded at sea, and are indeed often employed to rescue endangered ships. Using their powerful arms, Swampert

Hammer Arm - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

can swim in quick burst. They can use their fins to predict

incoming storms by noticing changes in wave and wind pat- Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Water 1, Egg Hatch Rate -

terns, piling boulders around their nests to protect their 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Beaches / Marshes

loved ones when they sense one nearing. Their powerful vision allows them to see clearly even in murky waters.

Evolution: Mudkip

Marshtomp

Swampert

Though strong and aggressive at times, Swampert can still Proficiencies: Ground / Water / Bruiser (Swampert)

be very playful.

/ Elemental Attack I / Stampeding (Swampert)

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 63

Piplup / Prinplup / Empoleon 

Piplup

Water - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Torrent (When you are below 20 HP, your Water-type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Pound - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Bubble - Ranged(15ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Peck - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Prinplup

Water - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Fountain, Swimmer

Passives: Growl, Torrent

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +2)

Fury Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Fury Attack has -2 during Accuracy Check. Fury Attack is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Metal Claw - Melee Steel Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.

Piplup are thought to be cute but they are also very prideful. Wild Piplup will refuse to accept food or shelter given to them by others. Instead, they will often adamantly find their own food and stubbornly sleep outside rather than in shelter. Piplup are far more adapted to aquatic than terrestrial life; they can dive for up to 10 minutes at a time without coming up for air. On land, they are rather clumsy, falling flat on their faces often. However, these tumbles don't hurt their pride, and they will simply continue walking with their heads held high. Piplup are covered in thick down that insulates them against their chilly environments. They almost always keep their chests puffed up as a display of pride.

Bubble Beam - Ranged(20ft beam) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

64

Prinplup are solitary Pokťmon; they are prideful and consider themselves too important to rely on others. Their wings are deceptively hard, capable of snapping trees with single blows. They are found in icy polar waters, spending their time diving beneath the ocean's surface. They nimbly chase down prey underwater before bringing their meals back to the surface. When not swimming, Prinplup can be found resting on icebergs and ice floes. In the water, they use their hard wings to break apart ice as they swim. It is believed that their coloration makes them harder to spot in the water, allowing them to ambush prey. From below, their light blue feathers blend in with sunlit waters, the white spots breaking up their outlines. From above, the darker blue shades match that of deep-sea waters. When two Prinplup meet, they will engage in displays of dominance to assert control over disputed territory. By puffing out their chests and waving around their wings, each Prinplup will attempt to appear larger than the other in order to "win" the fight.

Empoleon

Water / Steel - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Fountain, Swimmer
Passives: Growl, Defiant (If a foe lowers any of your stats, you have +2 Attack until your lowered stats are returned to normal.), Torrent

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)

Aqua Jet - Melee Water Attack: At-Will 2d6. Aqua Jet has Priority.

Empoleon are extremely prideful and believe themselves above others who are not a part of their families. Empoleon live in small groups. While each member retains

Brine - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target is at less than half of their Max HP, Brine has 5d8 for damage instead.

its own individuality and sense of self-worth, they have

Drill Peck - Melee Flying Attack: 3/day 3d10.

learned that teamwork in hunting yields far superior results

when compared to solitary attempts. The Empoleon with

the largest horns on their heads are the leaders of the

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10

groups. Empoleon can swim quickly in jet like bursts, using their steel-hard wings to slice through ice floes. They are

Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Polar

too proud to involve themselves in petty disputes, instead Evolution: Piplup

Prinplup

Empoleon

appearing aloof in most conflicts; however, they will viciously attack anyone that hurts their pride with powerful bursts of water or devastating slashes with their wings.

Proficiencies: Ice / Steel (Prinplup / Empoleon) / Water / Avian / Slashing (Prinplup / Empoleon)

65

Oshawott / Dewott / Samurott 

Oshawott

Water - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Torrent (When you are below 20 HP, your Water-type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Water Sport - Melee Water Effect: At-Will. Put a Water Coat on the target or yourself. The Coat has the following ability: Reduce damage from Fire attacks that hit you by 10. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

Dewott

Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 48 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Fountain, Swimmer

Passives: Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Tail Whip, Torrent

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)
Razor Shell - Melee Water Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Fury Cutter - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Fury Cutter against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Fury Cutter's damage.
Aqua Jet - Melee Water Attack: At-Will 2d6. Aqua Jet has Priority.

Oshawott may act tough, they are also quick to cower and flee when situations become too intense. Oshawott fight primarily using the shells on their bellies, often called scalchops. These implements can be detached at will, and can be reattached much like suction cups. Oshawott are born with scalchops attached; simple shells found on beaches will not suffice as substitutes. Scalchops consist primarily of a combination of chitin and calcium carbonate--their composition is nearly identical to that of an Oshawott claws. Scalchops are as sharp as blades; they are used to slash at foes and keep them at bay. Oshawott also use scalchops to slice open hard Berries when eating and thick vines when traveling. Because they rely on their scalchops so heavily, Oshawott will guard them with their lives.

66

Dewott are capable of wielding two scalchops at once. They take great care of their scalchops, spending much of their time cleaning them in the water or sharpening them on boulders. Dewott are very disciplined fighters. They will practice for hours at the same time every day, regardless of weather, sickness, or any other ailments. In combat, they are able to perfectly execute a wide variety of techniques thanks to their dedicated practice. In order to constantly confound opponents, Dewott will develop original fighting techniques exclusive to them. When two Dewott meet, they will engage in a friendly duel in which each will show off their signature techniques, hoping to earn the respect of the other in combat. Dewott tend to live alone, but are not territorial and will allow docile people and Pokťmon to wander through without conflict. Despite their solitude, Dewott are very protective of their friends and families and will not hesitate to aid their loved ones if threatened.

Samurott

Water - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Fountain, Swimmer

Passives: Focus Energy, Swords Dance (+2 Attack), Shell Armor (Critical hits are treated as normal hits against you.), Torrent

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)
Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.
Revenge - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. If you were attacked by the target this round, use 3d12 for damage instead.

Aqua Tail - Melee Water Attack: 1/day 3d12.

Samurott (Legend)

Water / Dark - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 7

Samurott are famous for their valiant natures and fighting prowess. These Pokťmon have a variety of weapons at their disposals. They can ram into opponents with their sharp horns to impale them, for instance. The two plated growths on their forelimbs are also sheaths concealing adapted scalchops that resemble daggers, known as seamitars. In battle, Samurott can stand on their hind legs and wield both of their seamitars to slash fearsomely at foes. Their skilled fighting techniques have garnered them much respect in their coastal habitats; a single glare or roar from a Samurott is often enough to scare off enemies. Though intimidating, Samurott are very protective of their loved ones, always choosing to protect their friends and family over themselves. They will never attack foes weaker than themselves, and they are known to help fend off attackers from smaller or younger Pokťmon.

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Fountain, Swimmer

Passives: Focus Energy, Swords Dance, Shell Armor, Torrent

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)

Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.

Night Slash - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Night Slash is a critical hit.

Ceaseless Edge - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target gains a Splinters Coat unless it already has one. The coat has the following ability: After acting, roll 1d20; on a result of 16 or better, destroy this coat; otherwise, take 2d4 damage. This Coat lasts for 3 mins, or until you are at 0 or less HP.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Water 1, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Beaches

Evolution: Oshawott

Dewott

Samurott,

mysterious circumstances Samurott (Legend)

Proficiencies: Dark (Samurott (Legend)) / Fighting (Samurott) / Ice (Melee attacks) / Water / Bruiser (Samurott) / Elemental Attack I / Slashing

67

Froakie / Frogadier / Greninja 

Froakie

Water - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain), Fountain (can create water), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Torrent (When you are below 20 HP, your Water-type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Pound - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Bubble - Ranged(15ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.

Frogadier

Water - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Climber, Fountain, Gilled, Swimmer

Passives: Growl, Torrent

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +5)

Froakie are carefree creatures that may seem to be dull and oblivious, but in fact are very perceptive and keep a close eye on everything around them. They can leap into action in the blink of an eye, spurred by warning signals most other people and Pokťmon wouldn't even notice. Froakie have strong hind legs that enable them to jump very high. Froakie breathe through their skin, which is rather thin and delicate. To protect themselves, they secrete a coat of bubbles from their chests and backs. These bubbles are flexible and shock-absorbent, shielding Froakie from the brunt of most attacks. In addition, Froakie also use these bubbles to disguise themselves from attackers, enabling them to analyze their surroundings without being noticed.

Water Pulse - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Smoke Screen - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. Place up to 25 contiguous ft of Smoke Screen Wall. Smoke Screen Wall has no thickness, is 12 ft tall and has the following ability: Attacks that target through or within the wall have -2 during Accuracy Check. This Wall disappears after 2 mins.
Smack Down - Ranged(25ft) Rock Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, Smack Down knocks the target out of the air, removing any Ground-type immunities and disabling the target's ability to move in the air for 2 mins.

68

Frogadier are incredibly agile Pokťmon that can be rarely found in ponds and wetlands. Their jumping abilities enable them to leap across trees in the wild or from wall to wall in buildings to confound and confuse opponents with ease. The tips of their fingers and toes are specially adapted to allow them to attach and hang upside-down from ceilings and ascend vertical surfaces; additionally, these pads enable these Pokťmon to run across the surface of water. They often disguise themselves in cloaks of bubbles near the water's surface as they patiently wait for prey. Frogadier are also skilled in ranged attacks; they are known to coat pebbles in bubbles before throwing to precisely hit targets. Frogadier tend to be hit-and-run attackers, blindsiding opponents with swift strikes before darting away and shrouding themselves with foam.

Greninja

Water / Dark - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 7 Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 10 Special Attack: 10

Skills: Climber, Fountain, Gilled, Stealth (can make stealth skill checks), Swimmer
Passives: Growl, Protean (You may change your types to the same type as an attack you are making while making it for 10 mins.), Torrent

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +5, Effect +6)

Greninja are often praised it for its stealth and agility. These Pokťmon are capable of shooting stars of highly compressed water fast enough to cleanly slice metal bars in half. Greninja are so swift that they sometimes seem to suddenly disappear and then reappear elsewhere as they move. Greninja will use this to their advantage, confusing foes with their speed before striking. The scarf-like appendages wrapped around the necks of these Pokťmon are in fact their tongues. These tongues are prehensile, capable of being lashed like whips. Greninja can sometimes be found hanging upside-down from tree branches or ceilings in the shadows, waiting for unwary foes to approach. They can propel themselves considerable distances by shooting jets of water at the ground beneath them.

Water Shuriken - Ranged(15ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 1d4. Water Shuriken has Priority and is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Double Team - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. You create 3 copies of yourself. You may attack from any copy and copies may inhabit spaces up to 25 ft away from each other, though none can be more than 25 ft from any other copies or the original. If a copy is hit, it disappears and you take 1/4th of the damage it would have taken. If your copy is hit by a non-damaging attack the copy is dismissed and you are unaffected by the attack. If you are hit, all copies disappear.
Night Slash - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Night Slash is a critical hit.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Ponds / Wetlands

Evolution: Froakie

Frogadier

Greninja

Proficiencies: Dark (Greninja) / Ice / Water / Tricky

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 69

Popplio / Brionne / Primarina 

Popplio

Water - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Baby-Doll Eyes (+1 Defense), Torrent (When you are below 20 HP, your Water-type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Pound - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Disarming Voice - Ranged(10ft) Fairy Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.

Brionne

Water - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Fountain, Swimmer

Passives: Baby-Doll Eyes, Torrent
Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +2)
Aqua Jet - Melee Water Attack: At-Will 2d6. Aqua Jet has Priority.
Encore - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. If the target can, it must use the last move it did for the next 3 rounds or until it no longer can.
Bubble Beam - Ranged(20ft beam) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Popplio are semiaquatic creatures; though they are more agile in the water than on land, they have a rather unique technique that helps them maneuver in terrestrial environments. Popplio can snort elastic bubbles, made of water thickened with glycoproteins, out of their nostrils that linger for long periods of time. They can then leap atop of and around these bubbles to travel much faster than by waddling. Creating such bubbles takes a lot of practice, and Popplio are famous for their diligence in training their bubble-inflating skills. As they train, they can blow larger and more resilient bubbles. These Pokťmon are also playful when not practicing; they love to perform acrobatic tricks with their bubbles in front of others, which also serve as trial runs for new strategies in battle. After gaining height by bouncing on these bubbles, they can attack opponents from the air in highly technical maneuvers. They can also pop their bubbles to damage foes with surprising force.

70

Brionne live in colonies on beaches and rocks near the sea shore. They are skilled dancers that rehearse tirelessly in order to memorize new routines. Brionne teach one another dances through performance and imitation; they may also decide to learn routines from humans if they like them enough. Thanks to their practice, Brionne have impeccable timing and can keep in perfect sync with others even in routines that they have just learned. Though rehearsal can be tiring, these Pokťmon never fail to get excited when they witness a new dance that they have yet to perfect. Colonies of Brionne can be observed dancing in unison under the light of the moon on nights of calm seas, often lead by a singing Primarina. In battle, Brionne combine their dancing with many large balloons of water to create stunning displays. As they prance about to confuse opponents, they slap balloons into them that explode upon contact. Brionne always strive to keep a positive and cheerful demeanor, even when they are upset, sad, or simply fatigued from their tireless rehearsals. They will only reveal their true emotions to those that they most closely trust; even wild Brionne in colonies may not outwardly display how they are feeling to other members.

Primarina
Water / Fairy - Large (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 48 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 12

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 13

Skills: Fountain, Swimmer

Passives: Baby-Doll Eyes, Liquid Voice (Sound-based moves made by you are Water-type.), Torrent

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +6, Effect +3)

Sparkling Aria - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Special Attack: 1/ day 3d12. Sparkling Aria cures any ally's Burns within range without damaging them.

Moonblast - Ranged(20ft) Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Sing - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Sing has -8

Primarina are exquisite vocalists and dancers whose

during Accuracy Check. On hit, all targets fall Asleep.

vocal talents are thought to rival the best opera singers in the world. Many pay to see particularly accomplished Primarina perform in grand concert halls. In battle, Primarina

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Beaches

use the vibrations created by their voices to maneuver sparkling bubbles around the field. Only some of these bubbles are explosive; they can leap around on the non-

Evolution: Popplio

Brionne

Primarina

Proficiencies: Fairy / Ice / Water / Cutesy / Sound

volatile ones to further play with opponents. The sight of a

field of Primarina bubbles glittering in the moonlight is said

to be breathtaking. Primarina teach one another new songs

in their colonies, passing them down over the generations.

They lead beautiful seaside concerts on moonlit nights.

Consequently, each colony has its own unique repertoire.

71

Sobble / Drizzile / Inteleon 

Sobble

Water - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Invisibility (can turn invisible), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Torrent (When you are below 20 HP, your Water-type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)
Pound - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Bind - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 physical damage on its turns.

Drizzile

Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain), Fountain, Intelligence (very smart), Invisibility, Swimmer

Passives: Growl, Tearful Look (+1 Defense, +1 Special Defense), Torrent

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)
Sucker Punch - Melee Dark Attack: 1/day 3d8. Sucker Punch is used as a Reaction. When you are a target of a melee move, use Sucker Punch to attack the attacker before the enemy rolls their Accuracy Check against you. You must still roll an accuracy check for Sucker Punch.

Sobble are quite timid, and it may take some time for them to warm up to others. They are easily scared to tears, which in fact serves as their primary defense mechanism. Their tears contain a powerful eye irritant said to be as potent as cut onions, making those around them tear up as well. By weeping, Sobble can force nearby threats to cry as well through the vapors emanating from their tears, potentially blinding them and giving Sobble a chance to escape. Sobble can also alter their body patterns when in contact with water to appear almost invisible. They can "sweat" water from their skin in tight situations in order to seemingly disappear into thin air--though not before letting loose a quick Water-type attack when their opponents least expect it.

Water Pulse - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Rain Dance - Water Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Raining Weather with a 60ft diameter. Within the Raining weather, Water-type attacks deal an additional 8 damage and Fire-type attacks deal 8 less damage. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

72

Drizzile are generally apathetic. They prefer to work smarter, not harder, and use their wit to stay ahead of enemies. Drizzile prefer hit-and-run tactics that leave foes bewildered. They use their sticky tongues to precisely lash at enemies with surprising focus and accuracy, while also taking advantage of their ability to camouflage into water to ambush enemies. These mucus-coated tongues are also used to snipe Bug-type prey. They tend to be antisocial and prefer to spend their time in the solitude of tree hollows and rock depressions. Drizzile will build traps around their territories in order to keep out intruders. For instance, they may fill ditches with water and then overlay them with leaves and mud to make them appear solid; enemies trying to approach will try to walk over the ditches only to fall inside. If foes do manage to avoid their tricks, Drizzile can form balloons of water by secreting moisture from their palms that they can then throw at attackers. Drizzile prefer to do as little work as possible in order to achieve the results they want, and are known to fool other Pokťmon into doing tasks for them.

Inteleon
Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 13

Skills: Climber, Fountain, Intelligence, Stealth (can make stealth skill checks), Swimmer

Passives: Growl, Tearful Look, Sniper (When you land a critical hit, you deal an additional 8 damage.), Torrent

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +6, Effect +6)

Snipe Shot - Ranged(40ft) Water Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. Snipe Shot cannot be redirected by passives or any other ability, instead only hitting a target it was directed at.

Liquidation - Ranged(10ft) Water Attack: 3/day 3d10. On

Inteleon are very cunning Pokťmon that have plenty of hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

tricks up their sleeves. The nictitating membranes over

Soak - Melee Water Effect: 3/day. On hit, put a Soak Coat

their eyes helps them identify the weak spots of oppo-

on the target. The Coat has the following ability: You lose

nents. They can shoot blasts of water from their fingertips your current Types and become only Water-type for 10

and accurately hit these weak points, sniping enemies from mins.

afar. Their tails conceal a sharp blade that can slice at ene-

mies. In tight situations, Inteleon can even unfurl the membranes on their backs and leap off of ledge to glide away from danger. Altogether, these traits make them highly ver-

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Ponds

satile Pokťmon that are difficult to pin down. Though Inteleon prefer to work alone, they are task-oriented and do not let their personal opinions get in the way of whatever

Evolution: Sobble

Drizzile

Proficiencies: Ice / Water / Tricky

Inteleon

they are trying to accomplish and so will work with others

to accomplish common goals. They possess a certain sense

of justice and are loyal to others who have proven them-

selves capable.

This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2. 73

Quaxly / Quaxwell / Quaquaval 

Quaxly

Water - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Torrent (When you are below 20 HP, your Water-type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +2) Pound - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6. Wing Attack - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d8.

Quaxwell

Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Fountain, Swimmer

Passives: Growl, Work Up (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Torrent

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)

Aqua Jet - Melee Water Attack: At-Will 2d6. Aqua Jet has Priority.

Water Pulse - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Low Sweep - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Quaxly are quite serious in demeanor, which can be a bit comical given their sizes. They follow behind their trainers militantly, trying their best to match their steps. This helps them develop their legs, which are strong enough to swim against strong river currents. There is nothing Quaxly detest more than getting dirty. Their feathers secrete a gel that repels water and grime, and they spend much of their time tidying up their surroundings. They are particularly fussy about their coiffed crests, which they keep slicked back and spotless with extra gel. In battle, Quaxly employ swift, repeated kicks to take down foes.

74

Quaxwell spend almost all of their free time practicing, particularly focusing on fundamentals. They are always running back and forth in shallow water to train their legs against the water resistance, and compete with others of their kind to hone the strength and grace of their kicks. When Quaxwell come across other people and Pokťmon practicing their techniques, particularly those from other regions, they focus intently on their movements. Afterwards, they will spend hours repeating them and incorporating the new moves into their own dances. Other Quaxwell are quick to pick up on such moves as well, and the techniques quickly spread across a population. Quaxwell lower their heads to absorb the shock of powerful moves with their dampening feathers; however, they cannot tolerate unkempt head feathers, so they must groom and gel their coifs immediately afterwards. Quaxwell are very hard on themselves when they make a mistake during a routine, and will sometimes overwork themselves unless their trainer steps in to stop them.

Quaquaval
Water / Fighting - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Fountain, Swimmer

Passives: Growl, Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Work Up, Dazzling (You may not be targeted by Priority moves that are being used out of turn order.), Torrent

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)

Aqua Step - Melee Water Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins.

Quaquaval are livelier and more relaxed than either of their pre-evolutions, and it shows in their dancing and fighting styles. This demeanor belies the arduous hours of practice they have spent, and continue to spend, honing their routines. A single kick from a Quaquaval can send a truck flying. The added flair on each of their moves increases not only their strength but also their beauty. Quaquaval frequently mix up their techniques against opponents, surprising them with attacks inspired by those from distant lands. The water feathers behind them, created by glands at the tips of their tails, sway mesmerizingly as they dance, entrancing onlookers. They are not just decorative, however, and can become sharp enough to leave cuts when lashed at foes. Quaquaval are happy to teach others their dance moves, but are not too worried about their students getting them exactly right; what's most important is that they are having fun and performing them with spirit.

Close Combat - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Defense and Special Defense are -2 for 10 mins.
Acrobatics - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Acrobatics cannot be used if you have a held item.

Biology: Egg Group - Flying / Water 1, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Ponds / Lakes

Evolution: Quaxly

Quaxwell

Quaquaval

Proficiencies: Fighting (Quaquaval) / Water / Martial (Kicks) (Quaquaval)

75

Pichu / Pikachu / Raichu 
/ Raichu (Island)

Pichu

Electric - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 12 Defense: 3 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Charm (+1 Defense), Nasty Plot (+1 Special Attack), Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Static (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Paralyze the attacker.)

Pichu were the first baby Pokťmon recorded to hatch in captivity. Pichu use their cheek pouches to store electricity. However, they are rather inexperienced and are oftentimes unable to hold on to electricity for long periods of time. Pichu almost always discharge all of their electricity in single quick bursts; even laughing too hard can cause them to discharge. This can be an issue because Pichu tend to be much more energetic when fully charged. They touch tails with each other as tests of courage, releasing showers of sparks that frighten them; but "brave" Pichu will hold in their tears. Pichu can be seen congregating on days of thunderstorms, charging up in the unusually dry air and making a distinct crackling sound as they do so.

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)

Thunder Shock - Ranged(20ft) Electric Special Attack: AtWill 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Sweet Kiss - Melee Fairy Effect: 3/day. Sweet Kiss has -4 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.

Thunder Wave - Ranged(20ft) Electric Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Paralyzed.

Pikachu

Electric - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Zapper

Passives: Charm, Nasty Plot, Tail Whip, Lightning Rod (Any foe's ranged Electric-type attacks within 25ft or any adjacent foe's Electric-type attacks are negated and drawn to you. Your Special Attack is +2 until the end of your next turn whenever you negate an Electric-type attack.), Static

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)
Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.
Electro Ball - Ranged(15ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. Electro Ball can only be used against targets slower than you.

Pikachu are social Pokťmon that live in groups in secluded forests, rarely interacting with humans at all. These groups, if large enough, can create small electrical storms in cloudy weather. Pikachu are very cautious Pokťmon, keeping their sensitive tails raised to detect minor changes in the atmosphere--a telltale sign that danger may be near. Their tails are sometimes struck by lightning during the storms they create in these poses. If a Pikachu's tail is disturbed, the Pokťmon may attack the offender by biting or shocking them. Wild Pikachu will touch tails to greet one another. They store electricity in their cheek pouches, which are believed to recharge while they sleep; Pikachu with stronger electricity are said to have softer, more elastic pouches. Pikachu are also very intelligent and friendly to their own kind. They are known to shock hard Berries to roast and tenderize them as well as give fellow Pikachu small shocks to recharge them.

Iron Tail - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. Iron Tail has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2. 76

Raichu are a rarity in the wild, as exposure to Thunder Stones is necessary to catalyze their evolutions from Pikachu. Though there are a few in the wild living in areas near their Pikachu brethren. Raichu can unleash extremely strong electrical bolts for their more powerful moves. They ground their tails to discharge excess electricity from into the earth, leaving behind scorch marks. Their strong electrical powers lead them to constantly exude weak electrical charges, causing them to glow faintly in the dark. These Pokťmon can draw electricity straight from the atmosphere simply by raising their tails. Their electricity levels are directly linked with their moods; a Raichu with little electricity is weak and depressed, while one that is filled to the brim is powerful and even aggressive at times. Notably, angered, fully-charged Raichu ears stand straight on end, a warning sign for enemies to quickly back away.

Raichu

Electric - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 13 (65 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Zapper

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Charm, Nasty Plot, Lightning Rod, Static
Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +6)
Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Slam has -2 during Accuracy Check.
Thunderbolt - Ranged(30ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Thunder - Ranged(30ft, 5ft blast) Electric Special Attack: 1/ day 5d12. Thunder has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Raining. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the targets are Paralyzed.

Raichu (Island)

Electric / Psychic - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Pikachu native to islands evolve into a different kind of Raichu when exposed to Thunder Stones. Exactly how this came to be is a mystery. Some scientists believe that these Raichu arose from a founder effect situation, where a rare mutation that was present in the first Raichu (or Pikachu) to come to islands quickly spread because of the low population; the new climate and available resources would have of course also exerted selective pressure. Regardless of how they came to be, Psychic-type Raichu are very popular Pokťmon that are commonly associated with tropical locations. Their psychic abilities allow them to levitate; in practice, they often stand and "surf" on their tails in this manner. Raichu attack by shooting out star-shaped thunderbolts. Their electrical sacs now also produce a sweet aroma when rubbed. Why they do this is unknown, but some believe that it may be connected with their psychokinesis.

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 13 (65 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Hover (can hover), Telekinetic (can move things with their mind), Zapper

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Charm, Nasty Plot, Static, Surge Surfer (While in Electrified terrain, your Speed is +2.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +6)

Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Slam has -2 during Accuracy Check.

Thunderbolt - Ranged(30ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 4 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Forests / Urban Plants

Evolution: Pichu

Pikachu

Thunder Stone Raichu,

Thunder Stone From Island habitat Island Raichu

Proficiencies: Electric / Psychic (Raichu Island) / Cutesy

77

Pikachu has been the mascot of Pokťmon since the first generation. It was Ash Ketchum's first Pokťmon, when his actual choices were supposed to be Bulbasaur, Charmander, and Squirtle. Red, the video game protagonist, has a particularly powerful Pikachu as well. Additionally, the Pokťmon Special manga protagonist, Red, also has a powerful Pikachu. For this reason, sometimes Pikachu is an option as a starter Pokťmon, even though Pikachu is the second stage in its family.
78

Eevee / Vaporeon / Umbreon

/ Jolteon / Leafeon

/ Flareon / Glaceon

/ Espeon 
/ Sylveon

Eevee

Normal - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Tracker (can follow scents)

Passives: Charm (+1 Defense), Adaptability (Moves that are the same type as you deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Swift - Ranged(20ft) Normal Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.

Vaporeon have fish-like tails for agile swimming capabilities. Vaporeon can swim in both saltwater and freshwater, however, though they very much prefer clean lakes to oceans. Their cellular structures are close to the molecular structure of water. Because of this property, they can essentially melt into water at will. The shape of their gills and fins make them hydrodynamic and allow them to swim gracefully. Vaporeon only live in clean water, so lakes they will swim in are safe to drink from. To defend themselves, they may melt into water to confuse foes. Then, they will suddenly solidify elsewhere and blast enemies with powerful blasts of water.

The Eevee species' DNA is irregular and extremely unstable. It mutates easily, so as a result, Eevee can easily adapt their bodies to nearly any environment based on the surrounding stimuli. Their fur is smooth and the tuft of fur around their necks are especially soft to touch. With careful study, you can determine the likelihood of which evolution a particular Eevee is most suited to by observing its neck fur. Eevee are loyal Pokťmon, always staying by the sides of their allies. They use their large, sensitive ears to warn their trainers of any threats nearby. While usually influenced by an evolution stone to change, Eevee can also be influenced by its habitat or even in a moment of danger. For example, an Eevee suddenly covered in flame or struck by lightning can reflexively evolve into Flareon or Jolteon respectively to save its own life.

Vaporeon

Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 78 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Amorphous (can change their body into a liquid-like state), Fountain (can create water), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim), Tracker

Passives: Acid Armor (+2 Defense), Adaptability, Hydration (While in Raining weather, you are cured of any afflictions.), Water Absorb (When you are hit by a water-type attack, halve the damage, then you heal that much HP instead of taking damage.)

This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2.

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)
Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Aqua Ring - Self Water Effect: 1/day. Put a Ring Coat on yourself. The Coat has the following ability: At the beginning of your turn, recover 1d10 HP. This Coat lasts for 1 min. If it's raining, the Coat lasts for 2 mins.
Hydro Pump - Ranged(30ft beam) Water Special Attack: 1/ day 5d12. Hydro Pump has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Raining.

79

Jolteon

Electric - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 15 (75 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Tracker, Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Charm, Adaptability, Quick Feet (While afflicted, your Speed is +2.), Volt Absorb (When you are hit by an electric-type attack, halve the damage, then you heal that much HP instead of taking damage.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +7) Thunder Shock - Ranged(20ft) Electric Special Attack: AtWill 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed. Pin Missile - Ranged(10ft) Bug Attack: At-Will 1d4. Pin Missile has -2 during Accuracy Check. Pin Missile is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks. Thunder - Ranged(30ft, 5ft blast) Electric Special Attack: 1/ day 5d12. Thunder has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Raining. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the targets are Paralyzed.
Flareon

Jolteon are as fast as lightning and can fire bolts of electricity. They are very temperamental and have frequent mood swings that affect their power; Jolteon experiencing stronger emotions, such as rage or elation, launch stronger attacks. Their cells all exude weak charges, which they can concentrate with static electricity in their fur into more powerful bolts. Additionally, by charging their fur negatively, they can bristle it into piercing spikes. Jolteon can launch these spikes at foes. Their charged fur emits a constant crackling noise. When frightened or startled, even by friends, Jolteon will bristle their fur and discharge static electricity. Their electrogenetic organs are located in their lungs, causing a crackling sound whenever they exhale.

Fire - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire), Heater (always warm), Tracker

Passives: Charm, Scary Face (+2 Speed), Adaptability, Flash Fire (You are immune to Fire-type attacks. If you would be hit by a Fire-type attack, your Fire type attacks deal +4 damage for 2 mins.), Guts (While afflicted, your Attack is +2.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)

Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.
Smog - Ranged(5ft) Poison Special Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you got 13 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.
Flare Blitz - Melee Fire Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal and if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Flareon can produce flames with their breath. Their fur, though fluffy, is efficient at expelling heat from their bodies into the surrounding air to cool them off. As a result, the air around Flareon is usually significantly hotter than the ambient temperature. Flareon have flame sacs inside their bodies. When preparing to attack using moves, they inhale deeply, filling the sacs with air. Flame glands in their bodies mix the air with volatile gases produced by their glands, igniting the mixtures. Then, they exhale the flames to attack. Though Flareon are tolerant of heat, they are not often found near volcanoes since they constantly need lots of fresh air to cool down their bodies. They are more tolerant of the cold than other Fire-types because of their plush fur.

80

Espeon are skilled at prediction, able to foretell events moments before they occur. When their forked tails quiver, they are deep in thought conjecturing what will happen next. Their superfine fur, which feels like velvet, can detect minute air currents and help them predict the attacks of foes. Some say they can even read the thoughts of enemies in a similar fashion. Their large ears aid them in their predictions, allowing them to hear the slightest sounds. The gems on their heads glow when they use their abilities, and are said to be the source of their powers. They will dull when Espeon are weakened or ill. Espeon gather psychic energy in its gem through sunbathing, making them poor battlers at night if they did not get enough sunlight during the day.

Espeon

Psychic - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 14

Skills: Telekinetic (can move things with their mind), Tracker

Passives: Calm Mind (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense), Charm, Adaptability, Magic Bounce (If you are hit by an attack that does not deal damage, the attacker is instead affected by the effects of their own attack.), Synchronize (When you are Burned, Confused, Frozen, Poisoned, Paralyzed, put to Sleep, or Toxified by a foe, the offender is also given the same affliction.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +7, Effect +5)

Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Morning Sun - Melee Normal Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or yourself. The target is healed HP equal to half of the target's Max HP. If you are within Sunny Weather, the target is healed HP equal to 3/4ths of the target's Max HP instead.

Umbreon naturally stir feelings of unease in those around them. They lurk in darkness, luring in prey and unsettling them simply by their mere presences. Just before they attack, their rings will glow dimly. These rings react in the presence of moonlight, glowing faintly when exposed to it; Umbreon seem to become stronger under these conditions. They glow brightest under a full moon, coincidentally also the time when Umbreon are the strongest. The rings will also glow when Umbreon experience strong emotions like happiness or anger. They aim for the throats of prey when hunting. They are very protective of their allies and will chase aggressors down until they are neutralized.

Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Umbreon

Dark - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 13

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Glow (can produce light), Mind Lock (mind can't be read), Tracker
Passives: Charm, Screech (+2 Attack), Adaptability, Inner Focus (You are immune to being Stunned.), Synchronize (When you are Burned, Confused, Frozen, Poisoned, Paralyzed, put to Sleep, or Toxified by a foe, the offender is also given the same affliction.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Snarl - Ranged(5ft burst) Dark Special Attack: At-Will 1d8. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Assurance - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target was already attacked this round, Assurance deals +1d8 damage.
Moonlight - Melee Fairy Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or yourself. The target is healed HP equal to half of the target's Max HP. If you are within Sunny Weather, the target is healed HP equal to 3/4ths of the target's Max HP instead.

81

Leafeon

Grass - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 42 Defense: 14 Special Defense: 7 Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 13 Special Attack: 6

Skills: Sprouter (can manipulate plant life), Tracker
Passives: Charm, Swords Dance (+2 Attack), Adaptability, Chlorophyll (While in Sunny Weather, your Speed is +2.), Leaf Guard (While in sunny weather, you are cured of any afflictions.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +5) Razor Leaf - Ranged(25ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Razor Leaf is a critical hit. Grass Whistle - Ranged(20ft burst) Grass Effect: 1/day. Grass Whistle has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, all targets fall Asleep. Leaf Blade - Melee Grass Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Leaf Blade is a critical hit.
Glaceon
Ice - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Leafeon gain almost all of their energy from the sun; all of their surface cells are photosynthetic, not just the dark green, leaf-like growths. Because of this, Leafeon are always cloaked in pure, fresh air. They can often be seen taking naps in sunlit clearings near clear streams, storing energy for the rest of the day. When the weather gets cloudy, Leafeon may consume Berries to tide themselves over until better weather, but they cannot survive entirely without the sun. They are pacifists that avoid confrontation at all costs. Though they can sharpen their tails and strike back with moves like Leaf Blade, they rarely do so except in dire situations or to protect their friends. Still, the cutting edges of their leaves are sharp enough to slice a tree in half. Leafeon can become ill from trips into polluted cities, as they normally are surrounded by clean air. Similarly, they cannot tolerate prolonged deprivation from sunlight.

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 13 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 13

Skills: Chilled (always cold), Freezer (can create ice), Tracker

Passives: Barrier (+2 Defense), Adaptability, Ice Body (If in Hailing weather, you recover 4 HP after you act and you don't take damage from Hailing weather.), Snow Cloak (While in Hailing weather, any foe's attacks made against you have -1 during Accuracy Check and you don't take damage from Hailing weather.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +6, Effect +3)
Icy Wind - Ranged(10ft) Ice Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Hail - Ice Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Hailing Weather with a 60ft diameter. Anyone who acts within the Hailing weather takes 2d4 damage after acting unless they are Ice Type. This weather disappears after 2 mins.
Blizzard - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Ice Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Blizzard has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Hailing. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the targets are Frozen.

Glaceon have the ability to consciously control their body temperature; by lowering it, they can freeze their fur and make it stand on end like icy needles. They can then tackle or fire these needles at foes. Glaceon can freeze the surrounding moisture by cooling their bodies, creating beautiful flurries of suspended ice crystals. The flurries sparkle like diamonds in the sunlight. They use the glittering mist to cloak themselves from attackers, letting them flee while their foes are distracted. Alternatively, they can also freeze air moisture into larger pellets to shoot at enemies. Unlike most Pokťmon that live in cold areas, their fur is not very thick. Their bodies are often colder than the surrounding air, which is what lets them to freeze water vapor by absorbing ambient heat.

82

Sylveon are almost always found alongside humans. Sylveon dislike conflicts and will attempt to avoid them whenever possible. The sight of their ribbonlike feelers waving in the air seems to placate many fighters. These feelers are able to sense the emotions of the living things that they touch. When not in battle, Sylveon have a habit of wrapping their feelers around their friends' arms as if holding hands. By doing so, they can sense every emotion that their allies feel. Elusive wild Sylveon dwell in lush woodlands, where they are surrounded by life and can easily avoid hostility. Despite having no prior contact with people, these wild individuals seem to prefer the company of humans to other beings. In battle, they may use their feelers to placate foes before attacking. They seem to be able to sense when they have the upper hand in battle, and will charge headfirst into situations that they feel they can win easily.

Sylveon

Fairy - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 60 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 13

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Telepath (can read emotions), Tracker, Reach (melee range is 15 ft.)

Passives: Charm, Adaptability, Cute Charm (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Infatuate the attacker.), Pixilate (Normal-type moves performed by you are treated as Fairy-type moves.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)
Disarming Voice - Ranged(10ft) Fairy Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.
Light Screen - Ranged(30ft) Psychic Effect: 3/day. Place 40ft of contiguous Light Screen Wall. Light Screen Wall is see through, 12 ft tall, and has the following ability: Special Attacks that target through this wall deal 10 less damage. This Wall disappears after 2 mins.
Moonblast - Ranged(20ft) Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Urban

Evolution: Eevee

Water Stone Vaporeon,

Eevee, like Pikachu, serves as a popular representative in

Thunder Stone Jolteon,

Fire Stone Flareon,

the Pokťmon franchise. Eevee appears as the rival's anchor

Shiny Stone Espeon,

Dusk Stone Umbreon,

in Pokťmon Yellow. Wes and Michael of the Colosseum and Gale of Darkness games respectively has partners from the

Leaf Stone Leafeon,

Ice Stone Glaceon,

Eevee family. Eevee even serves as a main Pokťmon for the

Dawn Stone Sylveon

games Conquest and Cafť Mix. For this reason, sometimes Eevee is an option as a starter Pokťmon, even though it only evolves once and has such a large variety of options when it comes to evolution.

Proficiencies: Water (Vaporeon) / Electric (Jolteon) / Fire (Flareon) / Psychic (Espeon) / Dark (Umbreon) / Grass (Leafeon) / Ice (Glaceon) / Fairy (Sylveon) / Cutesy

While most Eevee evolve through the use of evolution

stones, some undergo evolution by developing close bonds

with their trainers, or may even reactively evolve in order to

save themselves≠ like turning into a Flareon as it is en-

gulfed in dangerous flame. Evolution itself is a journey for

an Eevee and whatever it becomes, it surely will cherish its

evolution with its trainer.

83

The Pokťdex

There's a lot more Pokťmon to go, across eighteen types, from over twenty-five years of Pokťmon. In the following section, Pokťmon are first grouped by type. Types are presented in alphabetical order and Pokťmon are sorted into types based on their primary typing.

Bug

Grass

Dark

Ground

Dragon

Ice

Electric,

Normal

Fairy

Poison

Fire

Psychic

Fighting

Rock

Flying

Steel

Ghost

Water

Then, in each type, Pokťmon are sorted into groups

based on family size, meaning if a Pokťmon family has

three stages it'll be in the first group, then two stage fami-

lies, then Pokťmon that do not evolve. Within those groups,

if a Pokťmon family has a branching evolution line they'll

be at the back of their grouping. Otherwise, the Pokťmon

are alphabetically ordered by the name of the earliest stage

Pokťmon in the family.

Blipbug is at the front of the Bug section, because it's the first stage of a three-stage family and it's the first alphabetically of three-stage Bug-type Pokťmon. Its later stages gain the Psychic type, but it is primarily a Bug type. You can tell because its first type in its entry is Bug. Bulbasaur is a Poison type from its first stage, but Grass is always listed first in its entry so if it were not a starter Pokťmon it would be with the Grass type Pokťmon, not Poison types.

This sorting can make it difficult to find Pokťmon at times, so you can refer to the index at the end of this book which will give you specific locations in the Pokťdex for all entries in fully alphabetical order as well as finding their entries locations in other groupings.

While these entries include everything you'd need to start using a Pokťmon within a minute of obtaining it, keep in mind that a GM could change anything from typing, moves, or appearance in any other unusual way. Other than that, the only thing you change is the nature of your Pokťmon. It will randomly be assigned a nature that raises one of its stats by one and lowers another by one. Natures are detailed in the Player's Handbook.

Game Masters:
Starters tend to be Pokťmon who grow with their trainers, not always their favorite or even their main fighter, but often feature two stages of evolution. If your players want a different starter from the regular options, have a conversation with them about it. Usually Dragon-types are rare as a starter, but maybe your whole party is okay with a player who has their heart set on a Goomy starter? Maybe you have a dedicated bug catcher who wants nothing more than a Sewaddle starter? No matter the case, starters can be discussed but at the end of the day you're the GM and you have to be sure that if it's an option for one player it's only fair that other players have similar options, too.

84

Types:

Grass-types (330-376) work with the natural plants

of the Pokťmon world to create vegetation everywhere.

Bug-types (86-141) are common everywhere in the Many naturally can produce edible fruit and help to mainPokťmon world. Most likely due to their early stages of life tain the world's forests, jungles, and grasslands.

being prey to many Pokťmon, their evolutions having many

different forms of complicated defense and offensive capa-

bilities.

Ground-types (378-409) live everywhere and serve

as the world's natural tillers. Digging through the earth and

even consuming the rock and ground in order to improve

Dark-types (142-172) are sneaky and often associat- its nutrients are just some of the good these hardy Pokťed with underhanded tactics. While many are not inherent mon do just by existing.

troublemakers, cleverness seems to be associated with

much of the creatures that are find themselves in this group of Pokťmon.

Ice-types (410-435) are naturally only found where it is cold. While frigid and occasionally dangerous, many

enjoy the whimsy of falling snow and the fun of frozen

Dragon-types (174-193) are mysterious and ex-

lakes of ice.

tremely rare Pokťmon. Often associated with power and

grace, Dragon-types are sure to turn heads on the field of battle.

Normal-types (436-515) are the most populous variety of Pokťmon in the world. While often considered plain,

many Normal-types are quite diverse in their abilities to

Electric-types (194-228) are lively creatures who are produce various elemental effects.

capable of generating energy. While many are used to im-

prove the Pokťmon world for all, just as many are mischie-

vous and often steal electricity from various cities.

Poison-types (516-546) are dangerous Pokťmon.

While not inherently aggressive, each Poison-type is outfit-

ted with some kind of defense that can venomously harm

Fairy-types (230-245) are associated with fae magics potential threats and leave those poisoned in a sometimes

and can often create improbable outcomes and unex-

deadly situation.

pected surprises. While Fairy-types are very diverse in

shape and size, people seem to agree wholeheartedly that

they're all cute.

Psychic-types (548-581) sometimes can manipulate

the world with their minds and often have strange insights

and access into the minds of others. These brainy Pokťmon

Fighting-types (246-273) are hard workers and train are the epitome of mind-over-matter.

themselves to become the peak specimens in the Pokťmon

world. Fighting-types love... fighting! They're always game to test their skills and prove just how strong they are.

Rock-types (582-621) are tough and are often further compacted by the harsh environments they surround

themselves with. By growing in density and size by consum-

Fire-types (274-299) can produce flame! While, dan- ing rock and other minerals, Rock-types often reshape the gerous in the wild for their ability to set spaces ablaze, Fire- biomes they live in as keystone species.

types are trusty allies while exploring the Pokťmon world

who can keep you safe, warm, and well lit with a campfire.

Steel-types (622-644) are sharp and often impene-

trable. While some are influenced to grow metal shells by

Flying-types (300-305) are extremely numerous, filling the sky with winged creatures of all varieties and

consuming minerals, many are seemingly organic while seeming robotic or manufactured.

types. (this section is small because most Flying-type Pokťmon

are secondary Flying-types)

Water-types (646-720) fill the sea, lakes, rivers,

marshes, and ponds around the world. While they are not

Ghost-types (306-329) are spiritually charged beings capable of some spooky things. Many can disappear and reappear, move through walls, and generally like to

the only things found in the sea, Water-types are often as diverse in shape and size as the collective Pokťmon who make their homes on land.

haunt around creepy places.

85

Blipbug / Dottler / Orbeetle 

Blipbug

Bug - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 18 Defense: 2 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 2

Special Attack: 3

Skills: -
Passives: Swarm (When you are below 20 HP, your Bug-type attacks deal +4 damage)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +1, Effect +2)
Splash - Melee Normal Effect: At-Will. Instead of making an Accuracy Check, roll 1d20. On 18 or higher, all adjacent foes are moved 5 ft away from the user.
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Struggle Bug - Ranged(5ft burst) Bug Special Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Dottler

Bug / Psychic - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)

Passives: Compound Eyes (Add +1 during accuracy check whenever you use a ranged attack.), Swarm

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)
Reflect - Melee Psychic Effect: 3/day. Put a Reflect Coat on the target or yourself. The Coat has the following ability: Reduce damage from attacks that use the attack stat that hit you by 10. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

Blipbug are quite astute Pokťmon, though they unfortunately are not very strong. They shelter themselves in flower bushes to hide from the sights of predators, feeding on leaves. Their bodies are covered in hair that can detect changes in the air currents. These hairs are so sensitive that Blipbug can sense an approaching predator as far as thirty feet away. As Blipbug mature, they begin to learn how to distinguish different enemies based on how they shift the air currents. However, they are unable to make much use of their information due to their weakness; their solution to any dangerous situation is to hide and hope they do not get noticed. They are said to spend all of their time carefully studying enemies from afar, biding their time until evolution so they can finally take their vengeance.

Light Screen - Ranged(30ft) Psychic Effect: 3/day. Place 40ft of contiguous Light Screen Wall. Light Screen Wall is see through, 12 ft tall, and has the following ability: Special Attacks that target through this wall deal 10 less damage. This Wall disappears after 2 mins.

Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

86

Though Dottler are capable of movement, they prefer to remain almost entirely immobile. They hide in bushes or under piles of leaves, storing energy for evolution. Though they do not move, these Pokťmon are still very much aware of their surroundings. They use their psychic abilities to constantly monitor the area around them. When they sense something abnormal, their dots will begin to blink; this blinking will become faster as enemies try to approach, and more erratic when Dottler sense especially powerful enemies. If predators do manage to locate them, Dottler will release a burst of psychic energy to stun them before attempting to make their sluggish getaways. The longer Dottler go without food or water, the stronger their psychic abilities and thus their detection systems become. These Pokťmon do not eat at all in order to maximize their psychic conditioning and thus hasten their evolutions.

Orbeetle

Bug / Psychic - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 13

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Flight (can fly), Intelligence (very smart), Telekinetic, Telepath (can read minds)

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Calm Mind (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense), Compound Eyes, Swarm, Telepathy (Your allies within 25ft do not harm you when the ally is using attacks that have an area of effect.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +4, Effect +5)

Orbeetle wield spectacularly strong psychokinetic powers as well as a superhuman intelligence. Their brains are so large that they make up more than half of their body weights and require a special covering to protect their distended heads. Orbeetle are constantly exuding psychic energy, which they use to monitor their surroundings. As soon as they sense danger, they will begin formulating a plan of attack. By the time enemies arrive, Orbeetle will have prepared an impenetrable strategy for victory. Orbeetle are also believed to be able to influence the minds of others that are near them. It is said that these Pokťmon remember those who had terrorized them as Blipbug and Dottler, and will use their immense intelligence in order to concoct ways to torment them in turn. If a person is ever faced with a problem that seems specifically designed to ruin their day, it is thought that may have unknowingly angered a Blipbug sometime in the past.

Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Bug Buzz - Ranged(20ft) Bug Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Psychic Terrain - Psychic Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Psychic Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Characters touching the ground within the Psychic Terrain are immune to damage dealt by Reaction moves or moves used during Priority turns. Within the Psychic Terrain, Psychictype attacks deal an additional 8 damage This terrain disappears after 2 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Fields / Forests

Evolution: Blipbug

Dottler

Orbeetle

Proficiencies: Bug / Psychic (Dottler / Orbeetle) / Winged (Dottler / Orbeetle)

This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2. 87

Caterpie / Metapod / Butterfree 

Caterpie

Bug - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 2

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 3

Special Attack: 2

Skills: Repulsive (repels others with a foul smell), Threaded (can move around on spun threads)

Passives: String Shot (+2 Speed), Shield Dust (You are unaffected by additional effects from attacks that deal damage.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +1, Effect +3)

Splash - Melee Normal Effect: At-Will. Instead of making an Accuracy Check, roll 1d20. On 18 or higher, all adjacent foes are moved 5 ft away from the user.

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Bug Bite - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if the target is holding a Berry, you steal it and immediately consume it.

Metapod

Bug - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 2

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Threaded
Passives: Harden (+1 Defense), String Shot, Shed Skin (After acting, you may roll 1d4. On 4, you are cured of any afflictions.), Shield Dust

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +1, Effect +2)
Bide - Ranged(25ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Bide is a three-turn move. On the first and second turns, do nothing. On the third turn, release energy; all characters within range take damage equal to twice the damage you took since the first turn of Bide.

Caterpie are common Pokťmon in forests. They are ravenous eaters, often consuming leaves larger than themselves with ease. As weak, soft-bodied Pokťmon, Caterpie attempt to gather as much energy as possible to hasten their evolutions into Metapod, and afterwards into Butterfree. However, they are not completely defenseless and do have a few tricks up their sleeves. Firstly, the large eyes on their heads can trick and confuse predators into thinking they are dealing with much larger Pokťmon. Secondly, the suction pads on their feet allow them to climb nearly any surface and escape from predators. Additionally, Caterpie can use lines of silk to slow down their enemies and buy time for escape. Finally, the antennae on their heads release a repulsive odor when disturbed. These defense mechanisms allow Caterpie to thrive in their native habitats, and combined with the large clutch sizes of Butterfree, make them are one of the most common Pokťmon trainers encounter in forests.

Protect - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Protect is used as a Reaction. When you would be hit by a move, use Protect to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack.
Safeguard - Ranged(10ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Put a Safe Coat on all allies and yourself. The Coat has the following ability: You cannot become afflicted. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

88

When preparing to evolve, Caterpie spin cocoons around themselves. These cocoons, while still vulnerable when soft, will eventually harden into iron-hard casings, triggering their evolutions into Metapod. A Metapod's only defense is to harden its cocoon; when under attack, they weather blows, though extremely hard blows can occasionally crack their shells and expose their weak, liquid-like innards. They must conserve their energy to prepare for their final evolutions. To avoid attacks, these Pokťmon stay motionless and simply wait. Metapod are remarkably patient, enduring whatever pain they must to reach their final stages. They must remain upright while biding their time or risk spilling out their innards. They are often regarded as nearly useless in battle, as freshly-caught Metapod are rarely capable of damaging foes at all. Luckily, however, the Caterpie line undergoes some of the quickest evolutions known to date, and it does not take very long for Metapod to finally evolve into Butterfree.

Butterfree

Bug / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Flight (can fly), Guster (can produce wind)

Passives: Quiver Dance (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense, +1 Speed), Tailwind (+2 Speed), Compound Eyes (Add +1 during accuracy check whenever you use a ranged attack.), Shield Dust, Tinted Lens (Your resisted attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)

Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Butterfree evolve from Metapod and gain the ability of flight in the transformation. The wings they gain can let

Bug Buzz - Ranged(20ft) Bug Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

loose various abilities in battle; they are also waterrepellant, allowing Butterfree to fly even in torrential rain. Butterfree consume honey from flowers and are excellent at detecting sources of it. They can trace minute amounts

Air Slash - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. Air Slash has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

of pollen back to flower patches, where they then feast on honey and nectar. Using the hairs on their legs, Butterfree are also able to carry the sticky substance back to their

Biology: Egg Group - Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Forests / Jungles

nests. They often fly as far as 6 miles to find nectar in

Evolution: Caterpie

Metapod

blooming flowers. These Pokťmon also have powerful com-

pound eyes. Because of their water-resistant wings, But- Proficiencies: Bug / Flying (Butterfree)

Butterfree

terfree can often be found fluttering about in the misty up-

/ Psychic (Butterfree) / Lepidopteran (Butterfree)

per levels of rainforests. However, the high moisture is not

/ Winged (Butterfree)

necessary for their survival; they are simply highly tolerant

of it, so they are also found in drier forests as well, often

flying in small swarms to search out locations where honey

is abundant.

This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2. 89

Grubbin / Charjabug / Vikavolt 

Grubbin

Bug - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Burrow (moves through earth easily), Threaded (can move around on spun threads/vines)

Passives: String Shot (+2 Speed), Swarm (When you are below 20 HP, your Bug-type attacks deal +4 damage)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Vise Grip - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8.

Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Bug Bite - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if the target is holding a Berry, you steal it and immediately consume it.

Charjabug

Bug / Electric - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Burrow, Threaded, Zapper (can produce electricity)
Passives: String Shot, Battery (Allies within 15 ft of you have +1 Special Attack.), Swarm

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)
Charge - Self Electric Effect: At-Will. Your next Electric attack will deal +2d8 damage. Until then, your Special Defense is +1. This effect wears off after one min.
Spark - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Grubbin have strong mandibles that they use for almost everything. They use them to burrow underground, for instance, where they spend the majority of their time. Grubbin also use their jaws to scrape away at the bark of trees and feed on exposed sap. In order to stay safe from Flyingtype Pokťmon, Grubbin often make their homes near or in the habitats of Electric-type Pokťmon, as Flying-types are weak to them and usually avoid places where they congregate. They will use their mandibles to dig their nests into the soil. They also love electrical energy and will feed from power plants from time to time despite not being Electrictypes themselves. It is believed that Grubbin gradually store this electricity within themselves as they prepare for evolution. Though very slow on the ground, Grubbin can escape from peril by shooting sticky threads to attach themselves to branches or wires and then swing away like tiny acrobats. Once they are safely away from danger, they can simply cut the strands with their sharp mandibles to free themselves. They can also bind attackers with these threads to slow them down and buy time to flee.

90

Charjabug are slightly more active than other intermediate insects. Charjabug are capable of consuming solid foods and must, their pupal stage must still gather more energy. They are opportunistic feeders that eat whatever plant matter they can find nearby, including decaying matter. Charjabug still strive to remain as immobile as possible in order to store energy for evolution, however. They will often leave themselves half-buried in the ground while resting. Charjabug use what little food they eat to produce electrical energy using special organs in their abdomens; they can also siphon power from generators, and in fact seem to prefer this. They then store this energy inside electric sacs within their bodies, which they can utilize to defend themselves from foes by discharging electricity from the tips of their jaws. Their sturdy shells also help keep them protected from predators.

Vikavolt

Bug / Electric - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 15

Skills: Flight (can fly), Zapper

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Battery, Levitate (You are immune to Ground-type moves while you are airborne.), Swarm

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +7, Effect +3)

Thunderbolt - Ranged(30ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day

3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check,

the target is Paralyzed.

Vikavolt can deliver devastating blasts of electricity to take down would-be Flying-type predators. Vikavolt possess powerful electrogenetic organs within in their abdomens that can quickly generate large amounts of energy. They can focus this energy within their large mandibles before quickly firing precise beams of crackling electricity at foes.

Acrobatics - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Acrobatics cannot be used if you have a held item.
Bug Buzz - Ranged(20ft) Bug Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

To bolster their already-powerful attacks, Vikavolt will also grasp their pre-evolutions, Charjabug, in their legs as they fly, using them as additional energy sources. However, the

Biology: Egg Group - Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Herbivore / Ergovore, Habitat - Woodlands / Urban Plants

extra weight slows them down somewhat and makes it harder for them to fly. They will drop their loads when they need to reach maximum speed or make a sharp turn. Vikavolt are very fast, agile fliers that can easily navigate through the twisting branches of woodlands. They confound enemies with complex aerial maneuvers before firing off crackling beams of electricity from their jaws to take

Evolution: Grubbin Vikavolt

Charjabug

Thunder Stone

Proficiencies: Bug / Electric / Flying (Vikavolt) / Horned / Winged (Vikavolt)

them down.

91

Scatterbug / Spewpa / Vivillon 

Scatterbug

Bug - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Threaded (can move around on spun threads/vines)

Passives: String Shot (+2 Speed), Shield Dust (You are unaffected by additional effects from attacks that deal damage.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +1, Effect +3)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Bug Bite - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if the target is holding a Berry, you steal it and immediately consume it.
Stun Spore - Melee Grass Effect: At-Will. Stun Spore has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Paralyzed.

Spewpa

Bug - Small (Size), Light (Weight) Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 2

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Threaded

Passives: String Shot, Shed Skin (After acting, you may roll 1d4. On 4, you are cured of any afflictions.), Shield Dust

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +1, Effect +2)
Protect - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Protect is used as a Reaction. When you would be hit by a move, use Protect to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack.
Safeguard - Ranged(10ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Put a Safe Coat on all allies and yourself. The Coat has the following ability: You cannot become afflicted. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.
Endure - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Endure is used as a Reaction. If you would be hit by an attack that would knock you out, use Endure to instead be left with 1 HP.

Though they may appear rather weak and frail, Scatterbug are in fact some of the hardiest Bug-type Pokťmon in the world, if not one of the most resilient Pokťmon overall. They can survive in virtually any terrestrial environment, though they normally make their homes in forests. Temperate or tropical, evergreen or deciduous, boreal or xeric--it is probable that Scatterbug inhabit or even thrive in any of these wooded areas. The key to the adaptive success of these Pokťmon is the special black powder coating their bodies. This powder is incredibly effective at regulating heat, retaining it in cold weather but conducting it away in warmer climates, allowing Scatterbug to withstand a wide range of temperatures. This powder is also mildly poisonous to most other Pokťmon and people, paralyzing the muscles in the regions of contact.

92

Spewpa are able to withstand a diverse range of climates. With their thick scale wrappings, these Pokťmon can endure physical blows, retaliating back at assailants with plumes of paralyzing powder. Spewpa conceal themselves within the shadows of thickets and bushes to avoid being disturbed as they wait for evolution. Flying-type Pokťmon unaware of their defense mechanisms often try to attack them, though their beaks usually fail to pierce their sturdy bodies. Spewpa will bristle their fur as a warning signal prior to spraying their powder; this fur acts as an irritant against foes who disregard their warnings and touch these Pokťmon anyways. It is only if aggressors continue to ignore these signals that Spewpa will spray their paralyzing black powder.

Vivillon

Bug / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Flight (can fly), Guster (can produce wind), Wing Pattern (Vivillon have different wing patterns based on their global location, each pattern unique. This does not indicate rarity, only where the Vivillon was born.)

Vivillon are most famous for their incredible diversity in wing patterns, which can vary based on climate, weather, topology, and many other geographical and atmospheric conditions, in some of which correlations with Vivillon patterns have not yet been even researched. To date, Vivillon wing patterns come in over one-hundred varieties. While Vivillon have many different possible wing patterns, Vivillon born in the same forests will all have the exact same wing patterns no matter how far they travel from their forest of birth. Despite their diverse range of habitats, these Pokťmon all share a need for clean water, which they have an uncanny ability to locate through humidity sensors on their antennae. Vivillon shed colorful scales as they fly, the hues of which are determined by the particular Vivillon patterns.

Passives: Quiver Dance (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense, +1 Speed), Compound Eyes (Add +1 during accuracy check whenever you use a ranged attack.), Friend Guard (Allies within 25ft of you take -1d4 damage when attacked.), Shield Dust
Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)
Gust - Ranged(20ft) Flying Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. If the target is at least 20 ft off the ground airborne, Gust deals +1d20 damage.
Hurricane - Ranged(25ft, 10ft blast) Flying Special Attack: 1/ day 5d12. Hurricane has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Raining. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the targets are Confused.
Powder - Melee Bug Effect: 1/day. Powder is used as a Reaction. If an enemy within melee range would hit you with a Fire-type attack, use Powder to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the Fire-type attack, and also the enemy loses HP equal to 1/6th of its Max HP.

Biology: Egg Group - Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Forests

Evolution: Scatterbug

Spewpa

Vivillon

Proficiencies: Bug / Flying (Vivillon) / Lepidopteran / Winged (Vivillon)

93

Sewaddle / Swadloon / Leavanny 

Sewaddle

Bug / Grass - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Threaded (can move around on spun threads/vines)
Passives: String Shot (+2 Speed), Swarm (When you are below 20 HP, your Bug-type attacks deal +4 damage)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Bug Bite - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if the target is holding a Berry, you steal it and immediately consume it.
Razor Leaf - Ranged(25ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Razor Leaf is a critical hit.

Swadloon

Bug / Grass - Medium (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Threaded

Passives: String Shot, Chlorophyll (While in Sunny Weather, your Speed is +2.), Leaf Guard (While in sunny weather, you are cured of any afflictions.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)

Bide - Ranged(25ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Bide is a three-turn move. On the first and second turns, do nothing. On the third turn, release energy; all characters within range take damage equal to twice the damage you took since the first turn of Bide.

Sewaddle live in thick, temperate forests with their families. They spend their time munching idly on the leaves of plants. They can spit durable silk from their mouths, which they use to bind chewed-up leaves into protective layers of clothing around their bodies. When Sewaddle are born, their mother Leavanny tailor their first outfits in order to keep them warm and protected. As Sewaddle grow, they periodically shed their clothing and sew new sets on their own, though their mothers will aid in proportioning and tailoring their outfits. The leafy hoods surrounding their heads make it difficult for predators to detect them. When they sense danger, they will wrap their hoods around themselves to hide from threats. The hoods also serve as emergency food sources for them if they become hungry; many Sewaddle have holes in their hoods for this reason, having nibbled at them while famished.

Protect - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Protect is used as a Reaction. When you would be hit by a move, use Protect to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack.

Safeguard - Ranged(10ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Put a Safe Coat on all allies and yourself. The Coat has the following ability: You cannot become afflicted. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

94

Swadloon spend the majority of their time on the forest floor under the shade of thick canopies. Swadloon construct their own clothing out of leaves. To keep warm on the cold forest floors, these Pokťmon sew together cloaks that help protect them from rain, wind, and even predators. They also help shield Swadloon from direct sunlight, as these Pokťmon prefer to remain in dark, damp areas. Swadloon are restless--they are almost always on the move. As Swadloon travel, they feed on dead leaves beneath them on forest floors. In their natural ecosystems, Swadloon often serve integral roles as decomposers, turning dead plant matter into nutrients that nurture new trees and plants. In a perpetual symbiotic relationship with the local flora, Swadloon gather fresh leaves to protect themselves from outside conditions while in turn composting dead leaves into fertilizer for plant life.

Leavanny

Bug / Grass - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 48 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8
Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 12 Special Attack: 7
Skills: Threaded
Passives: String Shot, Swords Dance (+2 Attack), Chlorophyll, Overcoat (You are immune to damage from weather.), Swarm

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +5)

Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got

Leavanny have very strong senses of parental responsi- 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.

bility, raising their children until they themselves evolve.

X-Scissor - Melee Bug Attack: 3/day 3d10.

The cutters on their arms are razor-sharp; they are used to tailor leaves into protective clothing for themselves and their children. When threatened, Leavanny will use these

Leaf Storm - Ranged(30ft beam) Grass Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. After use, your Special Attack is -4 for 10 mins.

blades to defend their family. Leavanny can produce sticky

silk from their mouths that they use to bind leaves together Biology: Egg Group - Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet -

while sewing. When they reproduce, they wrap each of

Herbivore / Saprophyte, Habitat - Forests

their eggs in a cozy leafy covering. They use the warmth of dead, fermenting leaves to incubate their eggs. Their pa-

Evolution: Sewaddle

Swadloon

Leavanny

rental instincts are so strong, in fact, that they will gladly Proficiencies: Bug / Grass / Slashing (Leavanny)

take in lost and orphaned Pokťmon as their own, sewing

them new clothing from leaves and providing them with

some of the food they had gathered for their own children.

95

Venipede / Whirlipede / Scolipede 

Venipede

Bug / Poison - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 18 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 3

Skills: -

Passives: Defense Curl (+1 Defense), Screech (+2 Attack), Swarm (When you are below 20 HP, your Bug-type attacks deal +4 damage)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +1, Effect +3)

Rollout - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Rollout against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Rollout's damage.

Poison Sting - Melee Poison Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

Pursuit - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d6. Pursuit deals +6 damage to a target if they ended their turn further away from you during the start of their turn.

Whirlipede

Bug / Poison - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 4

Skills: -

Passives: Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Screech, Poison Point (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Poison the attacker.), Swarm

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Bug Bite - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if the target is holding a Berry, you steal it and immediately consume it.

Venipede use their antennae to navigate around the forest floor. Their feelers are very sensitive, capable of detecting minute changes in the air currents around them. Venipede use this skill when hunting, sensing vibrations in the air to hone in on fleeing prey. Despite their compact bodies, Venipede are surprisingly fast. They are aggressive, territorial Pokťmon that will attack travelers in their domains on sight. Additionally, their bites inject a moderate venom strong enough to completely incapacitate larger avian Pokťmon, or at least numb the muscles of people around the point of injection. Unlike other poisonous species that attempt to conserve their venoms and toxins, Venipede do not hesitate at all to bite and envenom both prey and predators, they use their toxicity as their primary method of offense. Their combination of speed, venom, aggressiveness, and general abundance in the dark undergrowth of forests make Venipede one of the most common causes of wild Pokťmon-related hospitalizations in the world.

Protect - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Protect is used as a Reaction. When you would be hit by a move, use Protect to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack.

Poison Tail - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned; if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Poison Tail is a critical hit.

96

Whirlipede are fast, aggressive, and venomous. They can bruise and cut those who anger them--an easy task, considering their hostility. Instead of biting, Whirlipede inject their poison through the various spikes and barbs on their bodies. They attack by rolling like tires at high speeds into foes, not only knocking them back but also leaving bruises and multiple scratches with their toxic spikes as well. Whirlipede do not eat, relying on the energy they had stored as Venipede for survival. In order to conserve this energy, these Pokťmon will remain completely still until they are threatened; they are rarely ever attacked intentionally due to their venomous spikes, so they do not have to actively defend themselves often. As a consequence of their motionlessness, however, most travelers are unaware of their presences; this is only exacerbated by the fact that they often hide themselves in dense piles of leaves or bushes. For this reason, most Whirlipede attacks occur seemingly out of nowhere without any warning whatsoever.

Scolipede
Bug / Poison - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 13 (65 ft.) Attack: 12 Special Attack: 6

Skills: -

Passives: Passives: Iron Defense, Screech, Speed Boost (+2 Speed), Poison Point, Quick Feet (While afflicted, your Speed is +2.), Swarm

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +6)

Venoshock - Ranged(10ft) Poison Special Attack: 3/day 2d10. If the target is Poisoned or Toxified, Venoshock has 4d10 for damage instead.

Venom Drench - Ranged(10ft) Poison Effect: 3/day. Venom

Drench can only target a Poisoned or Toxified enemy. On

hit, the target's Attack, Special Attack, and Speed are -3 for

Scolipede are stronger, faster, more aggressive, and

10 mins.

more poisonous than their pre-evolutions, who were al-

Megahorn - Melee Bug Attack: 1/day 5d12.

ready considered dangerous to begin with. Luckily, because

of their extremely territorial natures, sighting a Scolipede in

the wild is rather rare. These Pokťmon are apex predators,

chasing down any prey. When they near their quarries, they Biology: Egg Group - Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet -

will jab them repeatedly with the sharp horns on their

Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Woodlands

heads, aiming to gore them enough so that they can catch Evolution: Venipede

Whirlipede

Scolipede

up. When Scolipede reach their victims, they will grasp their

necks with their front claws, injecting a fatal poison that will Proficiencies: Bug / Poison / Bruiser (Scolipede)

kill within minutes. Despite this, Scolipede have been

/ Stampeding (Scolipede)

known to begin feeding on their prey before they have

died. When two Scolipede meet, they will battle fiercely us-

ing their horns to headbutt each other into submission. The

winner gains control of the territory of both individuals,

while the loser, if still alive, must relocate to a different area

of the forest.

97

Weedle / Kakuna / Beedrill 

Weedle

Bug / Poison - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 3 Special Defense: 2

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 2

Skills: Threaded (can move around on spun threads/vines)
Passives: String Shot (+2 Speed), Shield Dust (You are unaffected by additional effects from attacks that deal damage.)
Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +1, Effect +3)
Poison Sting - Melee Poison Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Bug Bite - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if the target is holding a Berry, you steal it and immediately consume it.

Kakuna

Bug / Poison - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 3

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Heater (always warm), Threaded
Passives: Harden (+1 Defense), String Shot, Shed Skin (After acting, you may roll 1d4. On 4, you are cured of any afflictions.), Shield Dust

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +1, Effect +3)
Bide - Ranged(25ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Bide is a three-turn move. On the first and second turns, do nothing. On the third turn, release energy; all characters within range take damage equal to twice the damage you took since the first turn of Bide.

Weedle are voracious eaters, consuming their weight in leaves daily. Though they appear helpless at a first glance, Weedle are in fact poisonous. The 2-inch barbs on their heads secrete a poison that, while not fatal, can be debilitating and cause moderate nausea, dizziness, and mild swelling at injured areas. The abundance of Weedle in dense forests makes accidental injuries and subsequent poisonings a very common problem among travelers. The stingers and brightly-colored bodies of these Pokťmon are intended to ward off potential predators who would not enjoy a mouthful of toxins. Weedle also have a sharp sense of smell, using their nose-like proboscises to sense which leaves are safe to consume. Some Weedle even develop preferences for certain leaves.

Protect - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Protect is used as a Reaction. When you would be hit by a move, use Protect to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack.

Safeguard - Ranged(10ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Put a Safe Coat on all allies and yourself. The Coat has the following ability: You cannot become afflicted. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

98

When close to evolution, Weedle seek out trees, branches or piles of leaves to hide in; when they evolve into Kakuna, their ability to move becomes severely restricted, and they can only inch about very slowly without lines of silk. They can sometimes be seen hanging from tree branches on strands of silk in large numbers. When provoked, Kakuna can extend poison barbs from their tips slightly to defend themselves. These Pokťmon try to conserve as much energy as possible for evolution, however, so they will only exert energy to unsheathe their barbs when absolutely necessary. Their hard cocoons protect the soft bodies within, which essentially liquify as they reconfigure themselves for evolution. This process, a fervor of activity that contrasts their immobility, causes their internal body temperatures to rise drastically, so much so that the shells of Kakuna nearing evolution feel uncomfortably hot to the touch. Their bodies only continue to heat up as they draw closer to their final transformations.

Beedrill

Bug / Poison - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 42 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Shield Dust, Sniper (When you land a critical hit, you deal an additional 8 damage.), Swarm (When you are below 20 HP, your Bug-type attacks deal +4 damage)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +5)

Twineedle - Melee Bug Attack: 3/day 1d12. Twineedle is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks. On either hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

Beedrill appear to be fierce Pokťmon, and rightly so. They have three venomous stingers, one on their abdo-

Poison Jab - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poi-

mens and two on their forelegs. Beedrill are extremely ter- soned.

ritorial, attacking anything that perceive as threats in swarms. They fly in at high speeds and jab foes with their stingers before taking them back to their nests for food. Theoretically, avoiding Beedrill swarm territory should al-

Fell Stinger - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d8. If you knock out a target with Fell Stinger, your Attack is +2 for 10 mins.

low travelers to avoid confrontation with these Pokťmon.

While this is true, complications arise when considering the Biology: Egg Group - Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet -

fact that Beedrill are a rather abundant Pokťmon; the com- Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Woodlands

bined territories of multiple swarms can take up the majori-

ty of a forest. While dangerous, however, Beedrill are also Evolution: Weedle

Kakuna

Beedrill

vital to the ecosystems to forests, helping prevent certain Proficiencies: Bug / Poison / Horned (Beedrill)

populations from growing uncontrollably. Trainers traveling

/ Winged (Beedrill)

in Beedrill territory are strongly advised to bring along

Pokťmon that can handle Beedrill and their attacks, as well

as to bring along a number Pecha Berries and Antidotes.

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 99

Wurmple / Silcoon / Beautifly 
/ Cascoon / Dustox

Wurmple

Bug - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 2

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain), Threaded (can move around on spun threads/vines)

Passives: String Shot (+2 Speed), Shield Dust (You are unaffected by additional effects from attacks that deal damage.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +1, Effect +2)

Poison Sting - Melee Poison Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Bug Bite - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if the target is holding a Berry, you steal it and immediately consume it.

Silcoon

Bug - Small (Size), Light (Weight) Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Threaded

Passives: String Shot, Shed Skin (After acting, you may roll 1d4. On 4, you are cured of any afflictions.), Shield Dust

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +1, Effect +2)
Bide - Ranged(25ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Bide is a three-turn move. On the first and second turns, do nothing. On the third turn, release energy; all characters within range take damage equal to twice the damage you took since the first turn of Bide.

Wurmple primarily defend themselves using the two spikes on their rears. When in trouble, they can secrete poison out of these barbs and raise their hindquarters up to deter potential predators. Alternatively, they can shoot a white fluid out of their mouths that turns sticky in contact with air--silk. The substance entangles and inhibits predators, giving Wurmple time to flee. Wurmple feed on tree sap; they use their spikes to peel back bark and feed on the exposed resin that oozes out. They spend most of their time on trees. The bottoms of their feet have tiny suction cups strong enough to allow them to inch upside-down even on glass surfaces. Wurmple are voracious eaters, as they need to store a good deal of energy for evolution. Depending on what time of day they make their cocoons and evolve, they will branch into two separate paths of evolution.

Protect - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Protect is used as a Reaction. When you would be hit by a move, use Protect to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack.

Safeguard - Ranged(10ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Put a Safe Coat on all allies and yourself. The Coat has the following ability: You cannot become afflicted. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

100

Silcoon will choose spots that receive lots of sunlight when they evolve. Silcoon attach themselves to nearby branches or leaves with copious amounts of silk to prevent themselves from accidentally being dislodged from their shelters. Silcoon do not move often, but luckily for them, they do not need to eat; they store all the energy they need to survive as Wurmple. They have been known, however, to spin silk in such a manner that morning dew or rain water will flow down to them and help slake their thirst. When in danger, Silcoon rely on their tough casings to protect themselves. Though capable of movement, they rarely do so, as they need to save as much energy as they can for evolution. Their activity tends to be limited to concealing themselves with leaves to hide from predators.

Beautifly

Bug / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Quiver Dance (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense, +1 Speed), Compound Eyes (Add +1 during accuracy check whenever you use a ranged attack.), Shield Dust

Beautifly can be seen flitting from flower to flower, consuming pollen--their favorite food. People often leave out potted plants with hopes of catching sight of visiting Beautifly. Despite their appearance, Beautifly can be very aggres-

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)
Attract - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Infatuated with you.

sive. Disturbing feeding Beautifly will anger them and cause them to chase offenders while jabbing them sharply with their needle-like proboscises. Though they prefer pollen, they are also content with stabbing and draining the body fluids of other prey if food is scarce. They are solitary and

Giga Drain - Melee Grass Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Bug Buzz - Ranged(20ft) Bug Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

territorial Pokťmon, only coming together during the

spring nesting season. During this time, Beautifly attacks Biology: Egg Group - Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet -

also become more common, as the Pokťmon both become Herbivore, Habitat - Forests

more aggressive and numerous, riding the spring winds into densely-populated areas.

Evolution: Wurmple

Silcoon

Beautifly,

Wurmple

Cascoon

Dustox

Proficiencies: Bug / Flying (Beautifly) / Grass (Ranged attacks / Beautifly) / Poison (Dustox) / Psychic (Ranged attacks / Dustox) / Lepidopteran (Beautifly / Dustox) / Winged (Beautifly / Dustox)

101

Cascoon

Bug - Small (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Threaded

Passives: String Shot, Shed Skin (After acting, you may roll 1d4. On 4, you are cured of any afflictions.), Shield Dust

Cascoon are found in the nooks of branches and in piles of dead leaves, using silk to attach foliage to themselves as camouflage. They prefer to dwell in dark areas away from sunlight. When their cocoons first form, they are soft and pliable. However, they harden over time; when they begin to crack, their owners are close to evolution. The insides of their cocoons are very hot, as their cells are creating and storing energy to evolve. Cascoon are largely immobile, conserving as much energy as they can. Even when attacked, they remain motionless; however, they are still entirely conscious.

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +1, Effect +2)

Bide - Ranged(25ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Bide is a three-turn move. On the first and second turns, do nothing. On the third turn, release energy; all characters within range take damage equal to twice the damage you took since the first turn of Bide.

Protect - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Protect is used as a Reaction. When you would be hit by a move, use Protect to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack.

Safeguard - Ranged(10ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Put a Safe Coat on all allies and yourself. The Coat has the following ability: You cannot become afflicted. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

Dustox

Bug / Poison - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Dustox are nocturnal Pokťmon, feeding on the leaves of trees after the sun sets. They use their antennae like radars to navigate without light, though their eyes are quite adept at seeing in the dark. When Dustox flap their wings, they let loose clouds of fine, toxic powder. They use this in their defense, flapping and letting loose the dust to deter enemies. Dustox are attracted to bright lights, a problem for many urban areas; they will often congregate along boulevards and avenues, attracted there by street lamps and large trees. In their wake, Dustox swarms leave behind lines of barren branches and large clouds of toxic powder.

Passives: Quiver Dance (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense, +1 Speed), Compound Eyes (Add +1 during accuracy check whenever you use a ranged attack.), Shield Dust

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Psybeam - Ranged(15ft beam) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Toxic - Melee Poison Effect: 1/day. Toxic has -3 during Accuracy Check, unless you are Poison type. On hit, the target is Toxified.

Bug Buzz - Ranged(20ft) Bug Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

102

CoCmombebeee/ V/ eVsepsipqiuqeunen 

Combee

Bug / Flying - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 18 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 3

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Flight (can fly), Guster (can produce wind)

Passives: Hustle (Your attacks against foes have -2 Accuracy. After the first time you miss an attack during an encounter, the -2 Accuracy penalty is removed and you gain +4 Attack until the end of the encounter.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +1, Effect +3)

Gust - Ranged(20ft) Flying Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. If the target is at least 20 ft off the ground airborne, Gust deals +1d20 damage.

Bug Bite - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if the target is holding a Berry, you steal it and immediately consume it.

Combee are born as group of three heads, with the lower heads being dominant. They dedicate their entire lives to pleasing their queen Vespiquen. Combee spend the entire day flitting from flower to flower, collecting nectar. They turn this nectar into honey and take it back to Vespiquen. Combee eat just enough to survive, giving all of the surplus to their queens; each head has a slightly different nectar preference. They are diurnal; at night, Combee colonies rest by stacking their bodies together to form hives protecting the queen. Their hexagonal bodies allow no space for intruders to slip through when they stack together. About a third of the Combee in a hive will be awake at any given time, keeping watch over their colony. Combee will attack any potential threats, not hesitating to give their lives to protect their queens. Combee are entirely subservient to their queens' orders; should the queens go missing, their colonies will fly about worriedly in search of them, not eating or resting until they are found. Female Combee can be distinguished by a red mark on their main heads; only one in eight Combee are female and only another one in onehundred of those females have the potential to become a queen themselves.

Biology: Egg Group - Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Caves / Forests

Evolution: Combee

Vespiquen

Proficiencies: Bug / Flying / Energy Blast (Vespiquen) / Winged

Bug Buzz - Ranged(20ft) Bug Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Vespiquen

Bug / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Flight, Guster

Passives: Majesty's Order (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack, +1 Defense, +1 Special Defense), Pressure (If you are hit by a 3/ day attack, the attacker can't use that attack for the remainder of the day.), Unnerve (Foes within 25ft of you cannot consume food.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +2)
Power Gem - Ranged(20ft) Rock Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.
Air Slash - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. Air Slash has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Fell Stinger - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d8. If you knock out a target with Fell Stinger, your Attack is +2 for 10 mins.

103

Vespiquen are rarely seen in the wild, as they are almost Cutiefly can sense the auras of other living things. These

constantly cloaked by walls of very protective Combee.

minute creatures can observe their colors and brightness

Though capable of making honey, they rarely do so, relying to identify living beings from afar and even gauge how they

on their Combee to bring back food for them. The six-celled are feeling. Cutiefly use aura to find flowers that are just

undersides of their abdomens serve as nests for Combee about to bloom to feed on their nectar and pollen. It is said

grubs, which they will protect at all costs. Conversely, the that people and Pokťmon that are feeling especially strong

grubs will also protect their mothers with their lives. Much emotions, whether positive or negative, have auras that

of the honey Vespiquen colonies collect goes towards feed- resemble that of blooming flowers. For this reason, many

ing these offspring. There is only one Vespiquen in a hive; Cutiefly may fly around the heads of those experiencing

should another female Combee evolve, it will immediately passionate feelings, expecting to find pollen. These Pokť-

be exiled by the reigning queen to form a new colony. The mon are often drawn to cities because of the many emo-

primary job of a Vespiquen is to birth and protect new

tions present within people and Pokťmon. When threat-

Combee. When their colonies falter, Vespiquen can pro-

ened, Cutiefly use this ability to sense where opponents

duce pheromones to command their grubs to do their bid- might strike next and evade them accordingly; the sight of

ding. Individuals with stronger pheromones can command larger Pokťmon being outmaneuvered by tiny Cutiefly is

a larger number of grubs more effectively. Vespiquen will often an amusing sight to behold.

repay outsiders who help defend their hives from attackers

graciously with generous amounts of honey. They will vi-

ciously attack those who steal honey, however.

104

CuCtuiteifelyfly/ R/ iRbiobmombebeee 

Cutiefly

Bug / Fairy - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight) Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Shield Dust (You are unaffected by additional effects from attacks that deal damage.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)
Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Fairy Wind - Ranged(20ft) Fairy Special Attack: At-Will 1d12.
Stun Spore - Melee Grass Effect: At-Will. Stun Spore has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Paralyzed.

Ribombee can be seen flitting about blooming meadows in search of nectar and pollen. They collect these substances and combine them with some of their salivary enzymes to create special puffs that they use to harm or heal others, held together by evaporatively-thickened nectar. Some may contain poisons and irritants for use when protecting themselves, while others may contain stimulants or relaxants to improve the moods of themselves and others. Ribombee are covered in fluffy hair that hold onto pollen as they travel between flowers. Rain significantly hinders their efforts, however, so they keep a close eye on the weather when traveling, monitoring moisture and wind conditions. The presence of Ribombee is a good sign that fair conditions will continue, as it is said that they will not appear unless a few clear days are to follow. If rain is approaching, Ribombee will seek shelter in their tree hollow nests and enter a dormant state until they sense better conditions.

Ribombee

Bug / Fairy - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 13 (65 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Flight
Passives: Quiver Dance (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense, +1 Speed), Shield Dust, Sweet Veil (You and your allies within 10ft of you are immune to being put to Sleep.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +6)
Pollen Puff - Ranged(10ft) Bug Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, you may choose to deal damage with Pollen Puff or heal the target's HP equal to the amount of damage Pollen Puff would have dealt.

Biology: Egg Group - Bug / Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Fields / Meadows / Urban Abandoned

Evolution: Cutiefly

Ribombee

Draining Kiss - Melee Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Dazzling Gleam - Ranged(15ft, 10ft wave) Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 3d8.

Proficiencies: Bug / Fairy / Cutesy / Lepidopteran / Winged

105

Dwebble / Crustle 

Dwebble

Bug / Rock - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 4

Skills: -

Passives: Rock Polish (+2 Speed), Withdraw (+1 Defense), Sturdy (If you would be brought from Max HP to 0 or below, you are instead brought to 1 HP.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)

Fury Cutter - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Fury Cutter against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Fury Cutter's damage.

Rock Blast - Ranged(10ft) Rock Attack: At-Will 1d4. Rock Blast has -2 during Accuracy Check. Rock Blast is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Bug Bite - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if the target is holding a Berry, you steal it and immediately consume it.

Crustle

Bug / Rock - Medium (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 14 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 7

Skills: -

Passives: Rock Polish, Withdraw, Shell Armor (Critical hits are treated as normal hits against you.), Sturdy, Weak Armor (When you are hit by a melee attack, your Defense is -3 and your Speed is +3 for 10 mins.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)
Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.
X-Scissor - Melee Bug Attack: 3/day 3d10.
Rock Wrecker - Ranged(25ft, 10ft blast) Rock Attack: 1/day 5d20. Rock Wrecker has a recharge turn and -2 during Accuracy Check.

When first born, Dwebble have no shells on their thin and fragile bodies. Their first instinct is to scramble about in search of adequate rocks, which they meticulously inspect for imperfections and weaknesses. When Dwebble find ideal stones, they will secrete a highly corrosive acid from their mouths onto the rocks, dissolving holes large enough for their bodies to fit into. Dwebble rely on their rocky shells for protection from predators, tucking themselves into them when threatened. Their hook-like tails latch onto crags within their rocks, making it difficult to dislodge their shells without great force. If their rocks break, Dwebble will become very agitated and not sleep or eat until they find new shells. In captivity, they have been known to use materials other than stone in order to construct their shells, including brick, asphalt, and concrete. Most Dwebble prefer using rocks regardless of what other substances are closer or more abundant.

Biology: Egg Group - Bug / Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Caves / Deserts

Evolution: Dwebble

Crustle

Proficiencies: Bug / Ground / Rock

106

Crustle are almost never found without their shells. Their sturdy legs allow them to support enormous amounts of weight on their backs, letting them carry large blocks of stone nearly indefinitely. Crustle are able to survive for long periods of time without water, which is often scarce in their arid habitats. They dislike direct contact with the substance, retreating beneath their shells during even light rains. To fashion their shells, Crustle will carve blocks of dirt and stone from the solid earth directly beneath their feet. They are highly territorial and will compete with nearby Crustle for control of choice swathes of land. When fighting for territory, Crustle will attempt to shatter the shells of their opponents. Competitors with broken shells relinquish all of their land; they also become timid and weak, as they are unable to defend themselves until they can build new shells. Because Crustle carve their shells from the ground within their domains, Crustle from different areas will often sport rocks with differently-colored strata. Crustle appear to be able to distinguish foreign and native visitors from each other based on these alternatelycolored layers.

Joltik are some of the smallest Pokťmon in the world. These Pokťmon drain electricity from sources around them. In most cases, a Joltik will attach itself to a Pokťmon's fur using its bristles to keep itself latched on, feeding on the static electricity that the fur generates as the Pokťmon moves. Joltik store this electricity in small pouches within their bodies; they can release it to stun opponents when threatened. Joltik cannot generate electricity, so they require hosts to charge. The relationship between a Joltik and its host is usually mutualistic; the Joltik feeds on generated static electricity while defending the host from predators with stunning shocks. Joltik attached to Electric-type Pokťmon, however, can be problematic, as they will begin to drain the internal electricity of their hosts alongside the static electricity they naturally generate. In cities, Joltik have been observed feeding from power outlets or directly from generators, occasionally causing minor blackouts.

107

Joltik / Galvantula 

Joltik

Bug / Electric - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain), Threaded (can move around on spun threads/vines), Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Screech (+2 Attack), String Shot (+2 Speed), Compound Eyes (Add +1 during accuracy check whenever you use a ranged attack.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Thunder Wave - Ranged(20ft) Electric Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Paralyzed. Bug Bite - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if the target is holding a Berry, you steal it and immediately consume it.
Galvantula
Bug / Electric - Large (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 42 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6 Speed: 13 (65 ft.) Attack: 10 Special Attack: 10 Skills: Climber, Threaded, Zapper Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Screech, Compound Eyes, Swarm (When you are below 20 HP, your Bug-type attacks deal +4 damage), Unnerve (Foes within 25ft of you cannot consume food.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +5, Effect +6)

Galvantula live within forests and caves in large swarms known as clusters. The borders of a Galvantula cluster's territory is clearly marked by a netting of electrified webs that deters foes from approaching. They release threads of electrically-charged silk that entangle and shock targets. Galvantula use these webs to immobilize prey when hunting as well as to slow down attackers pursuing them. They will lay down stunning webs near the nests of Flying-type Pokťmon to catch chicks that are still poor at flying. As a secondary measure, these Pokťmon have very strong mandibles and are capable of pinning down struggling foes until they succumb to paralysis in their silk prisons. After taking down prey, Galvantula will then proceed to consume their meals over the course of a few days. Despite their menacing appearances, Galvantula are not aggressive Pokťmon. They tend to ignore anything that they do not consider prey, including humans. However, Galvantula are fiercely protective of their clusters; angering a single individual in a group will cause the entire swarm to attack the aggressor.

Sticky Web - Ranged(25ft burst) Bug Effect: 3/day. Place the Sticky Web Hazard in the area surrounding you. Sticky Web Hazard has the following ability: Foes moving through Sticky Web Hazard on the ground have -25ft movement per turn, to a minimum of 5ft. This Hazard disappears after 2 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Carnivore / Ergovore, Habitat - Caves / Forests

Evolution: Joltik

Galvantula

Proficiencies: Bug / Electric

Electroweb - Ranged(10ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Signal Beam - Ranged(15ft beam) Bug Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Confused.

108

Karrablast / Escavalier 

Karrablast

Bug - Small (Size), Light (Weight) Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 4

Skills: -

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Swarm (When you are below 20 HP, your Bug-type attacks deal +4 damage)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Peck - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Fury Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Fury Attack has -2 during Accuracy Check. Fury Attack is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Fury Cutter - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Fury Cutter against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Fury Cutter's damage.

Karrablast dwell in wetlands where Shelmet can also be found, though they may also wander into grassy fields. They are very territorial, butting heads with other Karrablast using the horns on their head to compete for space. Karrablast can spit a mildly corrosive acid from their mouths to deter predators. They spend much of their time searching for Shelmet to facilitate their evolutions. When they find them, Karrablast will use their horns to pry the Shelmet out of their shells, which they steal for themselves. In the wild, competition for Shelmet can be fierce between Karrablast, who will invade each other's territories and spar with rivals for Shelmet. Shelmet have been known to use this time to sneak away from the danger.

Escavalier

Bug / Steel - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 42 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 15

Special Attack: 6

Skills: -

Passives: Leer, Overcoat (You are immune to damage from weather.), Shell Armor (Critical hits are treated as normal hits against you.), Swarm

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +3, Effect +1)

Biology: Egg Group - Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Fields / Forests / Wetlands

Evolution: Karrablast Escavalier

interact with Shelmet

Proficiencies: Bug / Steel (Escavalier) / Horned (Escavalier) / Slashing (Escavalier)

Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.
Iron Head - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Fell Stinger - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d8. If you knock out a target with Fell Stinger, your Attack is +2 for 10 mins.

109

Once Karrablast successfully steal the shells of Shelmet,

they can then evolve into Escavalier. Upon evolution, their stolen shells become part of their own bodies; they sacrifice speed for power and durability. Escavalier are able to adjust their armor so that it protects their whole bodies. In addition to piercing foes, they can also use their lances to parry incoming attacks. Though very slow in practice, Escavalier have been known to reach surprisingly high speeds by charging to gain momentum and then leaping so that they fly at foes, piercing even the toughest armor with their lances. Because of how much time and space Escavalier need to charge up, however, they rarely are able to execute this technique in battle. Escavalier have a reputation for being brave and courageous Pokťmon. They will not give up in fights until they are defeated, no matter how bleak the odds appear to be.

Kricketot are famous for the xylophone-like sound their hard antennae make when they clang together. By shaking their heads back and forth, they can make their antennae ring musically; this is how Kricketot communicate with others of their kind. Though their antennae are mostly stiff, Kricketot can adjust them slightly near the tips. By subtly curling and uncurling their antennae, Kricketot can alter the lengths of their exposed sections, thereby changing the pitches they make when they clang together. Altering the pitch and the rhythm of their clattering enables Kricketot to send complex messages to their peers. Their short legs make them rather clumsy at walking; they often stumble about while traveling, causing their antennae to clang together inadvertently will still ringing pleasantly and melodiously.

110

Kricketot / Kricketune 

Kricketot

Bug - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight) Hit Points: 24 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 3

Special Attack: 3

Skills: -

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Shed Skin (After acting, you may roll 1d4. On 4, you are cured of any afflictions.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +1, Effect +1)
Bide - Ranged(25ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Bide is a three-turn move. On the first and second turns, do nothing. On the third turn, release energy; all characters within range take damage equal to twice the damage you took since the first turn of Bide.
Struggle Bug - Ranged(5ft burst) Bug Special Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.
Bug Bite - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if the target is holding a Berry, you steal it and immediately consume it.

Kricketune have melodious cries that are easy on the ears. They are capable of composing melodies on the fly. Kricketune use songs to convey emotions, and are capable of making others around them feel similarly through their music. As they sing, they cross their knife-like arms across their chests. By allowing their cries to resonate within their bellies, they can produce a unique sound that is difficult to mimic with conventional instruments though it is sometimes compared to a modified violin or cello. In battle, they use their sharp arms to slash foes that come too close.

Biology: Egg Group - Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Fields

Evolution: Kricketot

Kricketune

Proficiencies: Bug / Slashing (Kricketune) / Sound / Winged (Kricketune)

Kricketune

Bug - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Growl, Screech (+2 Attack), Shed Skin, Swarm (When you are below 20 HP, your Bug-type attacks deal +4 damage), Technician (When rolling damage, replace any rolled 1s or 2s with 3.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)
Fury Cutter - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Fury Cutter against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Fury Cutter's damage.
Sing - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Sing has -8 during Accuracy Check. On hit, all targets fall Asleep.
Night Slash - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Night Slash is a critical hit.

111

Larvesta / Volcarona 

Larvesta

Bug / Fire - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire), Heater (always warm), Threaded (can move around on spun threads/vines)

Passives: String Shot (+2 Speed), Flame Body (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Burn the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)

Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Take Down - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.

Volcarona

Bug / Fire - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 12

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 15

Skills: Firestarter, Flight (can fly), Guster (can produce wind), Heater

Passives: Quiver Dance (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense, +1 Speed), Flame Body, Swarm (When you are below 20 HP, your Bug-type attacks deal +4 damage)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +7, Effect +5)
Rage Powder - Ranged(10ft) Bug Effect: 3/day. Rage Powder is used as a Reaction. If an ally would be attacked, you may target the attacking enemy and they will only want to attack you instead, for 2 mins.

Larvesta make their homes at the feet of dormant and active volcanoes. They can be found nestled in crags of hardened lava, warmed by the heat of the magma underneath. Larvesta are voracious eaters that feast on plants growing in the nearby rich, volcanic soil. The five horns protruding from their heads can each spew flames to protect Larvesta from predators; these horns are also usually very hot, sometimes glowing from the heat and further deterring opponents from bothering these Pokťmon. When Larvesta near evolution, they will use their horns to cloak themselves in flames as cocoons of sorts. When the flames dissipate, they emerge as Volcarona.

Biology: Egg Group - Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Volcanoes

Evolution: Larvesta

Volcarona

Proficiencies: Bug / Fire / Flying (Volcarona) / Lepidopteran (Volcarona) / Winged (Volcarona)

Hurricane - Ranged(25ft, 10ft blast) Flying Special Attack: 1/ day 5d12. Hurricane has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Raining. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the targets are Confused.

Fiery Dance - Ranged(20ft) Fire Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, your Special Attack is +2 for 10 mins.

112

Volcarona are almost never seen in the wild. Volcarona

are famous symbols of the sun--in particular, their six

Ledyba are social Pokťmon that live in large swarms.

wings are often used to symbolize the sun in contemporary They are very active, flying constantly about forests. How-

artwork. In battle, Volcarona can create fields of flames

ever, when separated from their friends, they become with-

simply by flapping their wings, shedding trails of shimmer- drawn, not eating, drinking, or sleeping until reunited. Their

ing, ember-like scales that set the ground ablaze. The sight feet secrete odorous fluids that they use to communicate

of these scales fluttering in the air has been described as breath-taking and mesmerizing by those who are blessed enough to see it firsthand. Volcarona are somewhat territorial of their homes. A volcano has its own natural defenses, but a wary Volcarona may attack travelers who begin to investigate their territories too closely.

with others. When temperatures drop, swarms will congregate together on lone trees, huddling together for warmth. Ledyba are major pollinators in forests; as their swarm flit about, they pollinate hundreds of flowers along the way. Their activity directly correlates with higher temperatures, being most active in the summer as well as in warm regions. Ledyba are strictly diurnal and are almost never seen

being active at night.

113

Ledyba / Ledian 

Ledyba

Bug / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 3 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 2

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Flight (can fly)
Passives: Swarm (When you are below 20 HP, your Bug-type attacks deal +4 damage)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Swift - Ranged(20ft) Normal Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.
Supersonic - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. Supersonic has -8 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.

Ledian

Bug / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Flight

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Early Bird (You roll twice during checks to wake from Sleep and use the higher result.), Iron Fist (Your punching attacks deal +4 damage.), Swarm

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +5)

Mach Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. Mach Punch has Priority.

Bug Buzz - Ranged(20ft) Bug Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Air Slash - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. Air Slash has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Ledian are very social, living in swarms numbering up to the hundreds. Ledian are nocturnal, spending the day sleeping while wrapped up in grass or leaves. Ledian only become active when the stars are visible. They are also active in places with clean air and Ledian swarms are a good sign of air quality. As they fly, they scatter a shimmery glowing dust below. The size of the spots on their backs seem to correlate with the number of visible stars in the sky. The more stars out, the larger the spots. Likewise, if the stars are obscured by clouds, the spots will shrink and may even disappear entirely. Ledian defend themselves with rapid punches. Though individual blows are weak, they can launch multitudinous volleys to take down foes.
Biology: Egg Group - Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Jungles / Woodlands

Evolution: Ledyba

Ledian

Proficiencies: Bug / Flying / Psychic (Effects Only) (Ledian) / Punches (Ledian) / Winged

114

Nymble / Lokix 

Nymble

Bug - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 18 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 2

Skills: -

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Swarm (When you are below 20 HP, your Bug-type attacks deal +4 damage)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +1, Effect +2)
Struggle Bug - Ranged(5ft burst) Bug Special Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.
Endure - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Endure is used as a Reaction. If you would be hit by an attack that would knock you out, use Endure to instead be left with 1 HP.
Astonish - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Tiny Nymble are skittish creatures, but pack quite a punch for their sizes. They keep their rearmost pairs of legs folded up most of the time. When endangered, however, they can unfold them to kick off and launch themselves up to thirty feet straight into the air. These hind legs can also deliver devastating kicks that can easily knock foes off their feet. Nymble use their dizzying acrobatics to dodge attacks in combat. They prefer to land a quick blow to stun potential predators before fleeing. When cornered, they can slam foes repeatedly with their kicks, though this tires out their legs greatly. After Nymble launch a full-powered jump with their hind legs, they have to rest for a day before regaining the strength to do so again. They spend this time hidden away in brushes to avoid the attention of opportunistic predators, who they would make easy meals for without their primary defense mechanisms.

Lokix
Bug / Dark - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 6
Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 12 Special Attack: 5
Skills: -
Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Screech (+2 Attack), Swarm, Tinted Lens (Your resisted attacks deal +4 damage.)
Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +2, Effect +5)
Bounce - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Bounce is a twoturn move. On the first turn, raise yourself 40 ft into the air. On the second turn, return to the ground, move up to twice your movement rate, then you may roll Bounce's Accuracy Check and damage. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Biology: Egg Group - Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Caves / Forests / Grasslands

Evolution: Nymble

Lokix

Proficiencies: Bug / Dark (Melee attacks) (Lokix) / Kicks (Lokix)

First Impression - Melee Bug Attack: 1/day 3d10. First Impression has Priority. First Impression can only be used as your first action during an encounter. On hit, the target is Stunned.
Axe Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. Axe Kick has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused. If you miss, you lose HP equal to half of your Max HP.

115

Lokix spend most of their time on the middle pairs of

legs, keeping their rearmost pairs folded up and tucked behind themselves. Even in combat, they prefer to fight with only their first two pairs of legs. In sticky situations, however, they will unfold these legs to enter their battle stance. In this mode, Lokix utilize their incredibly powerful back legs to assault foes with high-impact kicks, launching attacks from every angle. They can leap multiple times their own heights into the air to slam down on enemies, making quick work of most attackers. This stance is extremely taxing on their entire bodies, however, quickly wearing out their muscles and draining their energy stores. It is said that if a Lokix remains in this mode for too long, it may

Paras are covered in fungal spores from birth. As a Paras grows, so do the mushrooms on its back. Paras feed by burrowing and sucking nutrients out of tree roots; in turn, the mushrooms drain nutrients out of their host bodies. Paras must feed ravenously as a result. Paras can be found in damp, dark areas where fungi thrive; sunlight and dryness can damage their bodies. To defend themselves, the fungi release spores to inflict a variety of effects upon foes. Paras are sometimes seen as pests, as they harm tree roots. However, since they generally live in areas away from humans, they normally cause few problems.

even shorten its own lifespan. For this reason, they avoid

entering this mode unless absolutely necessary. In the wild,

Lokix may go for years without ever engaging in a true bat-

tle to avoid these consequences.

116

Paras / Parasect 

Paras

Bug / Grass - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 6

Skills: -

Passives: Growth (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Effect Spore (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, randomly either Paralyze, Poison, or put to Sleep the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +1)

Stun Spore - Melee Grass Effect: At-Will. Stun Spore has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Paralyzed.

Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Parasect dwell in damp places due to their fungi's own preferences for moisture. They swarm at the roots of trees, draining them until there is nothing left before moving on to new trees together. They are highly aggressive, attacking foes with their claws. The mushrooms on their backs also scatter poisonous spores around them; the larger the fungus, the more virulent the toxins. Throughout their lives, the mushrooms continues to drain their hosts, trying to drain it completely until there is nothing left. The Parasect body can never let it that happen, and so it spends hours a day draining energy from whatever plants it can find.

Biology: Egg Group - Bug / Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Phototroph / Saprophyte, Habitat - Caves / Forests / Woodlands

Evolution: Paras

Parasect

Proficiencies: Bug / Grass / Lepidopteran / Parasitic / Slashing (Parasect)

Fury Cutter - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Fury Cutter against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Fury Cutter's damage.

Parasect

Bug / Grass - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 7

Skills: -

Passives: Growth, Damp (Chloroblast, Explosion, Misty Explosion, and Self-Destruct fail to do anything if used within 40ft of you.), Dry Skin (In sunny weather, you lose 4 HP at the end of your actions. In rainy weather, you recover 4 HP at the end of your actions. You are immune to Water-type attacks.), Effect Spore

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +1)

Spore - Melee Grass Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is put to Sleep.

Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.

Giga Drain - Melee Grass Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

117

Pineco / Forretress 

Pineco

Bug - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Threaded (can move around on spun threads/vines)
Passives: Sturdy (If you would be brought from Max HP to 0 or below, you are instead brought to 1 HP.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)

Protect - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Protect is used as a Reaction. When you would be hit by a move, use Protect to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack.

Bug Bite - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if the target is holding a Berry, you steal it and immediately consume it.

Rapid Spin - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d8. Destroy any Hazards or Coats, and free bound allies within 5 ft. You may target Hazards, Coats, or bound allies with Rapid Spin without needing to roll Accuracy Check or damage.

Forretress

Bug / Steel - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 16 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Threaded

Passives: Autotomize (+2 Speed), Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Overcoat (You are immune to damage from weather.), Sturdy

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)
Self-Destruct - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Attack: 1/day 7d20. Set your HP to 0, then roll 1d20. On 10 or less, your HP is set to -100% HP and you must make a death saving throw.

Pineco make their homes under the branches of trees, attaching themselves with a sticky, resinous fluid they produce from their bodies. They also use this fluid to attach pieces of tree bark to themselves, creating thicker, makeshift shells that protect them from Pokťmon who mistake them for actual pinecones. Older individuals can construct huge shells this way, with some surrounding themselves with so much bark that the branches supporting them begin to sag or even break. Pineco don't move much, sticking to the same branch until evolution. They remain sedentary and feed upon the energy in the trees they attach themselves to. Multiple Pineco can often be found living in a single tree, sometimes even on the same branches. When such trees are disturbed, Pineco are known to drop off of their branches in order to defend their neighbors.

Biology: Egg Group - Bug / Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Forests

Evolution: Pineco

Forretress

Proficiencies: Bug / Rock / Steel (Forretress)

Zap Cannon - Ranged(30ft) Electric Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Zap Cannon has ≠5 during Accuracy Check. On hit the target is Paralyzed.

Heavy Slam - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. Heavy Slam can only target lighter targets.

118

Rellor are never seen without their balls of mud, which

Forretress have shells that are steel-hard. In the wild they are largely sessile, living out their lives almost entirely in a single tree. Forretress makes their homes in the nooks and crannies of tree trunks. They feed on smaller Bug-types that are attracted to the scent of the resin they produce. Forretress carapaces are nearly impenetrable; they only crack open just barely wide enough to catch prey, and do it so quickly that the motion is practically invisible to the naked eye. Their shells naturally chip from outside weather conditions--by periodically spinning rapidly, they can dislodge sharp, broken pieces of their shells onto the ground below to deter predators from approaching. This maneuver is in fact a defensive reflex that triggers instinctually whenever Forretress are startled.

they value more than their own lives. Formed by binding a mixture of dirt and sand with psychic energy, Rellor use their hind legs to roll these balls wherever they go. As they travel, the balls pick up new material and their surfaces become smoother. This action also gradually concentrates energy within the balls, where it is stored until Rellor are ready for evolution. Rellor begin rolling from the moment they are born, and the tiny ball that they first form will remain with them throughout their lives. As Rellor continue to roll their mud balls, the balls themselves grow bigger, while their bodies seem to grow weaker. In the days leading up to evolution, they seem to almost lack the strength to push their balls at all. In some rare circumstances, Rellor have been known to form balls out of materials other than mud or sand, such as precious metals

like gold.

119

Rellor / Rabsca 

Rellor

Bug - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 3

Skills: -

Passives: Defense Curl (+1 Defense), Compound Eyes (Add +1 during accuracy check whenever you use a ranged attack.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +1, Effect +1) Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Sand Attack - Ranged(10ft) Ground Effect: At-Will. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.

Rabsca

Bug / Psychic - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 12

Skills: Hover (can hover), Telekinetic (can move things with their mind),

Passives: Defense Curl, Compound Eyes, Shed Skin (After acting, you may roll 1d4. On 4, you are cured of any afflictions.) , Synchronize (When you are Burned, Confused, Frozen, Poisoned, Paralyzed, put to Sleep, or Toxified by a foe, the offender is also given the same affliction.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +6, Effect +2)
Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Bug Buzz - Ranged(20ft) Bug Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Revival Blessing - Melee Normal Effect: 1/day. Target ally at 0 or less HP is healed to half Max HP.

When Rellor evolve into Rabsca, they undergo a drastic change in locomotion. While Rellor walk on their front legs everywhere they go to push their balls with their hind legs, Rabsca do not touch the ground at all. Their balls have been infused with so much psychic energy that they can float on their own, pulling up their bodies along with them. In fact, some say that Rabsca have infused almost all of their life forces into their balls, rendering their bodies with just enough energy to rotate the balls gently in the air with their hind legs. Deep within the balls, one can occasionally see faint silhouettes shuddering. These are actually unborn Rellor, sleeping soundly while encased in psychic energy. Rabsca keep their balls rolling gently to soothe their Rellor, and protect them from harm with powerful Psychic-type attacks. Once the offspring emerge, the psychic balls have served their purposes, and Rabsca finally return to rest.

Biology: Egg Group - Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Deserts

Evolution: Rellor

Rabsca

Proficiencies: Bug / Psychic (Rabsca) / Energy Blast (Rabsca)

120

Shelmet / Accelgor 

Shelmet

Bug - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 4

Skills: -
Passives: Acid Armor (+2 Defense), Shell Armor (Critical hits are treated as normal hits against you.)

Shelmet live in wetlands and fens; Karrablast are almost always found in the same habitats as Shelmet. Karrablast are the main predators of Shelmet, if one could call them that. Most attackers are unable to pierce the thick shells of these Pokťmon, but Karrablast horns are adapted to pry their fragile bodies out from their armor. In fact, Karrablast must they steal the shells of Shelmet in order to evolve. Similarly, Shelmet that have lost their shells will evolve into Accelgor. Shelmet tend to be very cautious and aversive towards novel stimuli, however, so they will often attempt to flee from Karrablast despite needing them for evolution. To deter attackers, Shelmet can spit a sticky, poisonous substance that adheres to and irritates skin upon contact. They will then close their shells to protect their vulnerable bodies from damage. These Pokťmon can sometimes be found buried beneath the beneath the mud to avoid aggressors.

Biology: Egg Group - Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Fields / Forests / Wetlands

Evolution: Shelmet Accelgor

interact with Karrablast

Proficiencies: Bug / Tricky

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)
Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Acid Spray - Ranged(20ft) Poison Special Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Bide - Ranged(25ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Bide is a three-turn move. On the first and second turns, do nothing. On the third turn, release energy; all characters within range take damage equal to twice the damage you took since the first turn of Bide.

Accelgor

Bug - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 17 (85 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 10

Skills: -

Passives: Acid Armor, Agility (+2 Speed), Hydration (While in Raining weather, you are cured of any afflictions.), Sticky Hold (You cannot drop held items or have held items stolen from you.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +8)
Giga Drain - Melee Grass Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Bug Buzz - Ranged(20ft) Bug Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Recover - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP.

121

Spinarak silk, by weight, is one of the strongest known

If a Shelmet has its armor stolen by a Karrablast while materials on Earth. Webs of it can support the weight of

it's mature the Shelmet will reactively evolve into an Accel- stones that fall into them without snapping. Spinarak

gor. Without heavy shells weighing them down, Accelgor weave intricate webs of silk and then wait for prey to come

are very fast and agile; however, they also are rather frail, by. They are very patient and can wait motionless for days

as they have lost their main form of protection. These

or weeks for prey to arrive. When victims get tangled in

Pokťmon live in wetland areas and need to keep moist to their webs, they can detect the movements and even tell

prevent their skin from drying out. To facilitate this, Accel- what was captured by the vibrations created. Spinarak al-

gor wrap their bodies in mucus-soaked membranes that ways wait for night to fall before investigating their catches.

help them stay moisturized. A thirsty Accelgor will be weak, They subdue their prey, if still struggling, with venom, and

clumsy, and even more fragile than usual. Despite their lack then feast on their meals. Though their venom is not partic-

of legs, Accelgor can move very quickly, looking as if are

ularly strong, it is more than enough to incapacitate smaller

soaring through the air when they attack. They strike with prey. They can survive for weeks at a time on a good meal.

lightning-fast, ninja-like movements that can leave oppo- The designs on their backs shift based on their moods.

nents dazed before they even realize what hit them.

Spinarak are playful Pokťmon who only bite when threat-

ened.

122

Spinarak / Ariados 

Spinarak

Bug / Poison - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain), Threaded (can move around on spun threads/vines)
Passives: String Shot (+2 Speed), Swarm (When you are below 20 HP, your Bug-type attacks deal +4 damage)

Ariados can spin silk from their rears as well as their mouths. They use this to confuse both predators and prey about their true heads. Their legs have tiny claws that allow them to climb on walls and ceilings to ambush prey from any direction. When hunting, they do not wait in their webs like Spinarak. Instead, they shoot globs of silk at targets and then let them return home; they can then follow them back to their shelters and prey on all of their friends as well. Ariados are nocturnal, wandering in search of food only at night. They are also very territorial. They clearly mark boundaries with strings of old webs. Entering Ariados territory will provoke it into attacking in order to defend itself; circumventing a webbed area is strongly advised. Ariados poison, if left untreated, can be fatal in as little as thirty minutes.

Biology: Egg Group - Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Carnivore, Habitat - Forests / Woodlands

Evolution: Spinarak

Ariados

Proficiencies: Bug / Poison / Parasitic

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Poison Sting - Melee Poison Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.
Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Shadow Sneak - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 2d6. Shadow Sneak has Priority.

Ariados

Bug / Poison - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Climber, Threaded

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Swords Dance (+2 Attack), Insomnia (You are immune to being put to Sleep.), Sniper (When you land a critical hit, you deal an additional 8 damage.), Swarm

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)
Pin Missile - Ranged(10ft) Bug Attack: At-Will 1d4. Pin Missile has -2 during Accuracy Check. Pin Missile is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Cross Poison - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Cross Poison is a critical hit and the target is Poisoned.
Toxic Thread - Ranged(20ft) Poison Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Poisoned and the target's Speed is -1 until they are no longer Poisoned.

123

Surskit / Masquerain 

Surskit

Bug / Water - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight) Hit Points: 24 Defense: 3 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 3

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Swift Swim (While in Raining weather or in water, your Speed is +2.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)
Bubble - Ranged(15ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.
Bubble Beam - Ranged(20ft beam) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Masquerain

Bug / Flying - Medium (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Fountain, Flight (can fly), Guster (can produce wind)

Passives: Agility, Intimidate (+1 Defense), Quiver Dance (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense, +1 Speed), Swift Swim, Unnerve (Foes within 25ft of you cannot consume food.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)
Gust - Ranged(20ft) Flying Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. If the target is at least 20 ft off the ground airborne, Gust deals +1d20 damage.
Air Slash - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. Air Slash has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Bug Buzz - Ranged(20ft) Bug Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Surskit skate on the surface of weedy freshwater ponds and lakes. The tips of their feet secrete an oil that allows them to stay on the water's surface. Sometimes, after heavy falls of rain, Surskit may congregate on large puddles of water on the ground. They feed on smaller nectars from lily flowers and other sweet nectars from flowers near the edge of water. When in danger, Surskit will secrete a thick, sweet, honey-like substance from their head glands. Many large Pokťmon enjoy the taste of this fluid, attracted to the area by its smell. By drawing large predators near, Surskit attempt to scare off their attackers by attracting Pokťmon that may see their foes as prey. When the weather turns cold, Surskit will hibernate under the cover of dead leaves or fallen logs, emerging once it warms up again. They may climb onto land if their aquatic homes begin to freeze around them.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Ponds / Lakes / Wetlands

Evolution: Surskit

Masquerain

Proficiencies: Bug / Water / Flying (Masquerain) / Elemental Attack I / Lepidopteran / Winged (Masquerain)

124

The two growths on either side of the heads of Mas-

Tarountula spend much of their time high up in tree

querain are not wings, but antennae. Their true wings are branches, hidden away from the eyes of all but the most

the four diamond-shaped appendages on their bodies,

perceptive predators. They are most famous for their in-

which allow them to fly forwards, backwards, sideways, and credibly durable thread. Though entirely organic in compo-

even hover. They also are coated in an oil that lets Mas-

sition, it is as strong as steel wire and is resistant to both

querain perch on water. They use the eye patterns on their cutting and denting. This helps keep Tarountula protected

antennae to intimidate foes and predators, making them from their primary attackers, Scyther and various avian

appear larger than they really are. When their antennae

Pokťmon. Tarountula wrap their entire bodies in thick balls

begin drooping and appearing "sad," it is a sign that rain is of thread like woven suits of armors, leaving only their

coming. They must take shelter under trees when it rains; heads and legs exposed to navigate. When directly at-

their large antennae are surprisingly absorbent and can

tacked, they will quickly encase themselves, or their attack-

become waterlogged when wet, preventing them from fly- ers, in thread as a defense mechanism. The thread is al-

ing properly. Masquerain feed exclusively on the nectar

most as sticky as it is strong, so foes that get tangled up in

and leaves of aquatic plants.

it have a tough time extracting themselves before

Tarountula can flee. Scientists are intensively researching

Tarountula thread to see if they can be woven into all sorts

of miraculous textiles.

125

Tarountula / Spidops 

Tarountula

Bug - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain), Threaded (can move around with vines)

Passives: String Shot (+2 Speed), Insomnia (You are immune to being put to Sleep.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +1, Effect +2) Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Struggle Bug - Ranged(5ft burst) Bug Special Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.
Block - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d6 rounds.

Spidops

Bug - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Climber, Stealth (can make stealth skill checks), Threaded

Passives: String Shot, Insomnia, Stakeout (When you attack a target who has just joined the encounter since your last turn, you deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Silk Trap - Self Bug Effect: 1/day. Silk Trap is used as a Reaction. If you would be hit by an attack, use Silk Trap to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack. Also, if the ignored attack was a melee attack, the attacker's Speed is ≠2 for 10 mins.
Skitter Smack - Melee Bug Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Spidops are hunters and masters of stealth. They use their sticky threads to cling silently to tree branches, lying in wait for unsuspecting insect and small bird Pokťmon. They can adjust their positions without making a noise by sliding up and down their threads. Spidops prepare nets of thread prior to their ambushes; when the moment is just right, they leap down and capture their prey, dispatching it before it even realizes what has happened. Spidops cover their territories in a discrete patchwork of tough, sticky threads that trap potential intruders. Some even function as tripwires of sorts, alerting Spidops of invaders without letting their quarry know they've been noticed. Spidops have a particular disdain for Scyther, who frequently harass them as Tarountula. It is said that while a pack of Scyther could easily defeat a Spidops, a sneaky Spidops would have no trouble taking out an unsuspecting lone Scyther.

Biology: Egg Group - Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Grasslands

Evolution: Tarountula

Spidops

Proficiencies: Bug / Parasitic

Throat Chop - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target may not use attacks or abilities that require the use of the target's voice for 5 mins.

126

Venonat / Venomoth 

Venonat

Bug / Poison - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)

Passives: Compound Eyes (Add +1 during accuracy check whenever you use a ranged attack.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Disable - Ranged(20ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. For 1 minute, the attack last used by the target may not be used again.
Supersonic - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. Supersonic has -8 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.
Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Venonat are nocturnal Pokťmon that dwell in dark places like dimly lit forest floors. They hide in tree hollows until nightfall, when their main sources of food emerge. They eat other small Bug-types that flit about the dark undergrowth. Venonat are attracted to light and can commonly be seen swarming around lampposts near the forests where they live. The bristly hairs covering them protect them from predators by making them unappetizing meals. Venonat also ooze poison from all over their bodies as a secondary defense mechanism. Their large compound eyes can sense tiny movements in the darkness, allowing them to easily hone in on their tiny insect prey. Additionally, their eyes also function as radar units of sorts, alerting them to potential dangers lurking about. Venonat can focus their eyes to defend themselves by firing disorienting beams.

Venomoth

Bug / Poison - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Flight (can fly), Telekinetic
Passives: Quiver Dance (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense, +1 Speed), Compound Eyes, Shield Dust (You are unaffected by additional effects from attacks that deal damage.), Tinted Lens (Your resisted attacks deal +4 damage.), Wonder Skin (Your stats cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)

Biology: Egg Group - Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Carnivore, Habitat - Forests / Jungles / Woodlands

Evolution: Venonat

Venomoth

Proficiencies: Bug / Poison / Psychic / Lepidopteran / Winged (Venomoth)

Sleep Powder - Melee Grass Effect: At-Will. Sleep Powder has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is put to Sleep.
Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Bug Buzz - Ranged(20ft) Bug Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

127

Venomoth are nocturnal and are attracted to bright

Wimpod are notoriously cowardly creatures that will

lights and open flames. Luckily for them, so are their prey. flee at the first sign of danger. Foreign sights and sounds

Venomoth still feast on smaller Bug-types that swarm near spook these Pokťmon; if one approaches a group of them,

lights in the darkness, making hunting for food an easy task they will scatter in all directions. If cornered, Wimpod will

for these Pokťmon. Venomoth have scales on their wings spew a noxious fluid as a last-ditch effort. The odor of this

that fall off as they flutter about. The scales leach poison substance signals to other Wimpod that danger is near.

upon contact, which can inflict a number of different status Wimpod are scavengers that will gladly feed on any waste

afflictions depending on the color of the scales. Venomoth they can find. They can digest rotten food and even human

will purposely flap their wings vigorously when in danger to trash with no ill effects. Their many legs scrape the ground

releases these noxious scales.

as they scurry, cleaning the surface below. They are valued

as beach and sea cleaners, helping mitigate the effects of

human pollution in tourist destination spots. Despite their

meekness, Wimpod are also curious and will approach un-

familiar objects if they have remained still for a long time.

They have a habit of storing what they cannot eat, like

pearls or shiny coins. Though the Wimpod themselves will

scurry away if they sense someone approaching, one can

easily find a Wimpod nest by noting the cleanliness of the

surrounding sand.

128

Wimpod / Golisopod 

Wimpod

Bug / Water - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 18 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 2

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Emergency Exit (You cannot fight when first damaged below half of Max HP. You will want to run away or return to a Poke Ball for 2 rounds. During those two rounds, your speed is doubled.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +1, Effect +4)
Splash - Melee Normal Effect: At-Will. Instead of making an Accuracy Check, roll 1d20. On 18 or higher, all adjacent foes are moved 5 ft away from the user.
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Struggle Bug - Ranged(5ft burst) Bug Special Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Golisopod

Despite their intimidating stature, Golisopod are peaceful creatures. They spend most of their time meditating silently deep beneath the sea in underwater caverns or sunken ships. These Pokťmon also try to avoid needless conflict; they do not hunt, instead feeding on kelp, algae, and discarded refuse. However, Golisopod are wellequipped to defend themselves from danger. Their rockhard carapaces can shield them from most blows, while their sharp claws can slice with enough force to briefly cleave water or air right in two. Golisopod will try to fight as little as possible, only holding their foes off until they have an opening to flee and meditate in peace. When cornered, these Pokťmon will do whatever it takes in order to neutralize the threat, taking advantage of every opening and using their small front claws to finish foes off. Wild Golisopod are sometimes found surrounded by Wimpod; whether this relationship is protective or merely friendly is unknown.

Biology: Egg Group - Bug / Water 3, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore / Pollutivore, Habitat - Beaches / Caves

Evolution: Wimpod

Golisopod

Proficiencies: Bug / Water / Bruiser (Golisopod) / Elemental Attack I (Golisopod) / Slashing (Golisopod) / Tricky (Golisopod)

Bug / Water - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 16 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 15

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Fountain, Swimmer

Passives: Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Swords Dance (+2 Attack), Emergency Exit

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

First Impression - Melee Bug Attack: 1/day 3d10. First Impression has Priority. First Impression can only be used as your first action during an encounter. On hit, the target is Stunned.

Pin Missile - Ranged(10ft) Bug Attack: At-Will 1d4. Pin Missile has -2 during Accuracy Check. Pin Missile is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Liquidation - Ranged(10ft) Water Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

129

Yanma / Yanmega 

Yanma

Bug / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Flight (can fly)
Passives: Screech (+2 Attack), Compound Eyes (Add +1 during accuracy check whenever you use a ranged attack.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +5)

Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.

Supersonic - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. Supersonic has -8 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.

Air Slash - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. Air Slash has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Yanmega
Bug / Flying - Large (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 54 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 6 Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 10 Special Attack: 12 Skills: Flight Passives: Screech, Speed Boost (+2 Speed), Compound Eyes, Tinted Lens (Your resisted attacks deal +4 damage.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +6, Effect +6) Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.

Yanma are some of the most agile fliers in the world. They can fly in any direction: forwards, backwards, up, down, left, and right; they can even hover in place. They flap their wings extremely quickly; to defend themselves, Yanma can increase the speed of their flapping to generate shock waves and stun foes. These waves are strong enough to shatter glass windows. Their compound eyes can turn in all directions, allowing them to see in virtually any direction. This is useful when Yanma are hunting their preferred prey--other Bug-types. Yanma are very territorial against other Yanma, defending their domains from intruders. They primarily reside in humid swamps and marshes, though they can also be found in damper woodlands. Yanma catch prey in their strong mandibles, oftentimes grabbing them out of the air mid-flight and carrying them back to their nests to feed upon in private. They use the two long growths on either end of their tails to remain balanced as they quickly dart around in search of food.

Ancient Power - Ranged(10ft) Rock Special Attack: 1/day 2d8. On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour.

Biology: Egg Group - Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Swamps / Woodlands

Bug Buzz - Ranged(20ft) Bug Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On Evolution: Yanma

Yanmega

hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Proficiencies: Bug / Flying / Winged

130

Burmy are almost always seen covered in some kind of

material, so few know what they look like. They are very

Yanmega are considered by some to be living fossils,

susceptible to the weather, so they will scramble to cover

having remained virtually unchanged since prehistoric

themselves if exposed. Their cloaks keep them insulated in

times. Ancient fossils and wing prints uncovered during

cold winds; in warmer weather, they shed the outer layers

excavations perfectly match with Yanmega alive today. In of their cloaks to keep from overheating. Burmy seem to

modern times, these Pokťmon makes their homes in damp always find something to cover themselves in, no matter

woodlands and swamps. They are brutal attackers,

how barren their surroundings. In battle, their cloaks often

equipped with myriad abilities to take down foes and often shed off, forcing them to construct new ones out of nearby

violently so. For example, they can rapidly beat their wings materials, using their silk to bind things together. In forests,

to create shock waves strong enough to dislodge tree

they will often be found in leaves and twigs. Near rivers,

branches; such blasts can easily cause internal injuries in they will veil themselves in sand and pebbles. In cities, they

surrounding life. They are also skilled at using their power- scavenge refuse and metal scraps to make cloaks. Burmy

ful jaws to tear apart foes in mid-flight. Yanmega are strong enough to carry adult humans into the air. They use the wings on their tails to keep balanced while flying. Yanmega are extraordinarily swift fliers, capable of nearing the speed

have been recorded using other materials, as they are surprisingly resourceful when it comes to cloaking themselves; feathers, flower petals, and even discarded scales or fur have all been used to make their covers.

of sound when unburdened. They are a territorial species

and will defend their homes viciously when threatened.

131

Burmy / Wormadam 
/ Mothim

Burmy

Bug - Tiny (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 3

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Cloak (The physical appearance of Burmy changes depending on the area it spends time in. After as little as ten minutes in the forest/jungle, desert/mountain, or city, a Burmy changes into its Plant, Sandy, or Trash cloak respectively), Threaded (can move around on spun threads/vines)

Passives: Shed Skin (After acting, you may roll 1d4. On 4, you are cured of any afflictions.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +1, Effect +2)

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Bug Bite - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if the target is holding a Berry, you steal it and immediately consume it.

Protect - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Protect is used as a Reaction. When you would be hit by a move, use Protect to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack.

Wormadam (Plant Cloak)

Bug / Grass - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 12

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Telekinetic (can move things with their mind), Threaded

Passives: Quiver Dance (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense, +1 Speed), String Shot (+2 Speed), Overcoat (You are immune to damage from weather.), Shed Skin

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)

Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Razor Leaf - Ranged(25ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Razor Leaf is a critical hit.

Bug Buzz - Ranged(20ft) Bug Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Once Burmy evolve, their current cloaks fuse with their body and becomes permanent; unlike Burmy cloaks, Wormadam cloaks are never shed. In a rather extreme case of dimorphism, only female Burmy evolve into Wormadam, never sprouting wings and instead remaining stationary for most of their lives. The variety of different cloaks Burmy use also transfers over to Wormadam. Like Burmy, most Wormadam are covered in either leaves and other plant materials, sand and gravel, or trash and metal scraps. However, these are hardly the only types of coverings found within the species. As Burmy alter the thickness of their cloaks to regulate their temperatures, Wormadam that evolve on cold days also tend to have thicker cloaks.

132

Male Burmy shed their covers, grow wings, and evolve into Mothim. Mothim are nocturnal Pokťmon, flitting about forests in search of floral honey. They have no stationary nests and are constantly on the move in search of food. Mothim rest wherever there is shelter, but do not return twice to the same place. Though their primary source of nutrition is honey, they are not well-adapted to obtain it themselves. Instead, they search for hives made by other Pokťmon around forests, sneakily stealing honey from them. This task is more difficult than it sounds, considering that hives are often protected watchful guards. Mothim cloak themselves in a scent similar to that of whatever Pokťmon they're infiltrating to avoid detection as they fill up on honey.

Wormadam (Trash Cloak)

Bug / Steel - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Telekinetic, Threaded
Passives: Metal Sound (+1 Special Attack), Quiver Dance, Overcoat, Shed Skin
Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +2)

Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Mirror Shot - Ranged(20ft) Steel Special Attack: At-Will 2d8.
Bug Buzz - Ranged(20ft) Bug Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Mothim

Bug / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 10

Wormadam (Sandy Cloak)

Bug / Ground - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 13 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Telekinetic, Threaded

Passives: Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Quiver Dance, Overcoat, Shed Skin

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Rock Blast - Ranged(10ft) Rock Attack: At-Will 1d4. Rock Blast has -2 during Accuracy Check. Rock Blast is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Bug Buzz - Ranged(20ft) Bug Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

*It is possible that a female Burmy may develop unique cloaks out of strange materials to make unique types not shown here. For example, a Burmy covered in silk produced by other bugs may become a pure Bug-type Wormadam, or a Burmy with a coat made of flotsam may become a Bug and Water-type Wormadam.

Skills: Flight (can fly)
Passives: Quiver Dance (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense, +1 Speed), Swarm (When you are below 20 HP, your Bug-type attacks deal +4 damage), Tinted Lens (Your resisted attacks deal +4 damage.)
Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)
Air Slash - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. Air Slash has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Bug Buzz - Ranged(20ft) Bug Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Bug / Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Deserts / Forests / Urban

Evolution: Burmy

in forest or grassland setting

Wormadam Plant Cloak,

in a desert, mountain,

or beach setting Wormadam Sandy Cloak,

in

urban setting Wormadam Trash Cloak,

Mothim

Proficiencies: Bug / Grass (Wormadam Plant Cloak) / Ground (Wormadam Sandy Cloak) / Steel (Wormadam Trash Cloak) / Flying (Mothim) / Psychic (Wormadam and Mothim) / Lepidopteran (Wormadam / Mothim) / Winged (Mothim)

133

NNinicnacdaada/ /N/SNihniejnadjsaiknsjka
/ Shedinja

Nincada

Bug / Ground - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 18 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Burrow (moves through earth easily)
Passives: Harden (+1 Defense), Compound Eyes (Add +1 during accuracy check whenever you use a ranged attack.)
Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +1, Effect +2)
Leech Life - Melee Bug Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Fury Swipes - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Fury Swipes has -2 during Accuracy Check. Fury Swipes is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Mud-Slap - Ranged(5ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 1d6. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.

Ninjask
Bug / Flying - Small (Size), Light (Weight)
Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5
Speed: 18 (90 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 5
Skills: Flight (can fly)
Passives: Speed Boost (+2 Speed), Swords Dance (+2 Attack), Compound Eyes, Infiltrator (Hindering terrain and Walls do not affect you or your attacks.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +9)
Fury Cutter - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Fury Cutter against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Fury Cutter's damage.
Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.
X-Scissor - Melee Bug Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Wild Nincada spend most of their time underground; they cannot stand sunlight and avoid it as much as they can. Since they rarely venture aboveground, their eyes are very poorly developed, making them virtually blind. Nincada navigate using their antennae to probe their surroundings. They search for tree roots, which they claw into to suck out moisture, nutrients, and sap. They can spend as long as ten years underground, making their nests between the thick roots of large trees so they do not have to travel far to find food. Nincada will use their claws to dig out tunnels connecting their nests to other important areas: water sources, other trees, and exit tunnels to the surface should their nests flood from rain. Nincada need to molt their exoskeletons to continue growing. When molting, they will travel up their exit tunnels onto the trunks of the trees they are nesting in. They do this at night, after the sun has gone down. When they near evolution, they molt for a final time, but do not return to their nests afterwards.

134

Ninjask travel at incredibly fast speeds. Oftentimes, the only way one can tell that Ninjask are nearby is by the highpitched buzzing sound they make while flying and the gusts of wind felt by their passing. Listening to their buzzing for extended periods of time can cause headaches, adding to the difficulty of being around them. Their favorite food is tree sap; Ninjask can be seen congregating around exposed sap on tree bark, one of the only times they can be seen remaining still. When evolving from Nincada, Ninjask leaves behind an empty shell that it sheds and sometimes that empty husk comes to life on its own.

Shedinja

Bug / Ghost - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 1 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Hover (can hover), Tough Cookie (lowers chance of death)

Shedinja are very mysterious Pokťmon; they don't evolve from Nincada, but rather can suddenly appear when Nincada evolves into Ninjask. They never move or twitch, and don't show any sign of breathing. However, they float perfectly still, in mid-air, despite only appearing to be hollow carapaces. No one knows why the final shed shell of a Nincada can become animated, but it does not always become animated adding further mystery to Shedinja. Their shells are curiously hard, yet brittle, repelling a wide variety of attacks without even a scratch. However, other attacks-Fire-type moves, for example--negate this mysterious force with ease. Attacks that can break through and damage Shedinja will knock them out immediately, no matter how weak the attack.

Passives: Wonder Guard (Shedinja is immune to attacks that are not super-effective. Wonder Guard cannot be removed, ignored, or disabled by any means.)
Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +1, Effect +2)
Shadow Sneak - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 2d6. Shadow Sneak has Priority.
Confuse Ray - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target becomes Confused.
Phantom Force - Melee Ghost Attack: 1/day 3d12. Phantom Force is a two-turn move. On the first turn, disappear from the battlefield. On the second turn, reappear anywhere within 25 ft of where you vanished, move up to twice your movement speed, and roll Phantom Force's Accuracy Check and damage.

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral / Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Forests / Woodlands

Evolution: Nincada

Ninjask, Nincada

sometimes leaves wild husk upon evolving Shedinja

Proficiencies: Bug / Flying (Ninjask) / Ghost (Shedinja) / Hexwork (Shedinja) / Winged (Ninjask)

135

Scyther / Scizor 
/ Kleavor

Scyther
Bug / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8
Speed: 13 (65 ft.) Attack: 13 Special Attack: 6
Skills: Flight (can fly)
Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Swords Dance (+2 Attack), Swarm (When you are below 20 HP, your Bug-type attacks deal +4 damage)
Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +6)
Vacuum Wave - Ranged(15ft) Fighting Special Attack: AtWill 2d6. Vacuum Wave has Priority.
Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.
X-Scissor - Melee Bug Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Scizor

Bug / Steel - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 15

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Flight
Passives: Focus Energy, Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Swords Dance, Swarm, Technician (When rolling damage, replace any rolled 1s or 2s with 3.)

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)
Bullet Punch - Melee Steel Attack: At-Will 2d6. Bullet Punch has Priority.
Night Slash - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Night Slash is a critical hit.

Scyther live in packs in grasslands, forests, and mountain. They are very aggressive, but intelligent Pokťmon. Scyther silently stalk their prey, camouflaging in trees or grasses before leaping out and slashing their targets to bits with their blades. They attack so quickly that their movements cannot be seen; they can appear to be in multiple places at once as they dart about. They use this to their advantages while hunting. If Scyther are spotted by their quarries, they will dash around them to bewilder them. Their blades are sharp enough to slice through logs in one strike. Scyther often sharpen them against boulders, and will use them to cut meat into more manageable pieces before eating. Scyther can also fly, though they rarely choose to do so. Leaders of Scyther packs command respect from the others members. However, their positions can be challenged at any time in battles. If a leader loses, it is exiled from the group to wander alone. These exiled Scyther generally tend to be more aggressive than those found in packs.

Iron Head - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 136

Scizor have exoskeletons made out a material as hard as iron. Their pincers are strong enough to pulverize stone, and contain an alloy very similar to steel; they are more suited to pummeling foes than grasping them. Scizor are calculated, relentless hunters that will not let prey flee once spotted. The eyespots on them make them resemble second and third heads; Scizor wave theses claws around while opening and closing them in order to intimidate foes. They use their wings to regulate their body temperatures, flapping at varying speeds to warm themselves up or cool themselves down. Though rare in the wild, they can occasionally be found living solitarily in grasslands and forests; they dislike tropical climates. They will duel with other Scizor and Scyther packs to protect their territories. Scyther that evolve in the wild are immediately shunned from their packs, forced to find their own land and fend for themselves.

Kleavor

Bug / Rock - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 16

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Sinker (can't swim), Strength (very strong)

Passives: Focus Energy, Calm Mind (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense), Swords Dance, Sheer Force (Your attacks that have additional effects that affect the target may deal +4 damage, but will not have those additional effects.), Steadfast (When you are Stunned, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins.), Swarm (When you are below 20 HP, your Bug-type attacks deal +4 damage)

Moves (Attack +8, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Upon evolution, not only do Kleavor exoskeletons harden with black mineral, but other parts of their bodies crystallize entirely as well. Their most obvious features are their axe-like arms, which are made entirely of black augurite that can slice through the toughest armor. In addition to offense, Kleavor can also wield these appendages as shields against enemy attacks. Kleavor use these blades to mark their territories by carving symbols on tree trunks. After marking their perimeters in this manner, they will fell trees in crisscross patterns to fill them in. Kleavor often lose small chunks of their bodies to chipping over the course of battles. This chipping actually leaves sharp points behind, making these blades even sharper. Kleavor gauge the strength of potential rivals by the amount of chipping they possess.

Stealth Rock - Ranged(5ft) Rock Effect: 3/day. Place a Stealth Rock Hazard adjacent to you. Stealth Rock Hazard has the following ability: If a foe moves within 20 ft of Stealth Rock Hazard, it will hurl itself at the foe, destroying itself and dealing 2d12 Rock-type damage to the foe without needing an Accuracy Check. This Hazard disappears after 2 mins.
Stone Axe - Melee Rock Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target gains a Splinters Coat unless it already has one. The coat has the following ability: After acting, roll 1d20; on a result of 16 or better, destroy this coat; otherwise, take 2d4 damage. This Coat lasts for 3 mins, or until you are at 0 or less HP.
Air Slash - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. Air Slash has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Biology: Egg Group - Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 13 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Grasslands / Woodlands

Evolution: Scyther

in an urban setting Scizor,

in a mountainous setting Kleavor

Proficiencies: Bug / Flying / Rock (Kleavor) / Steel (Scizor) / Slashing

137

Durant 
Bug / Steel - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 36 Defense: 13 Special Defense: 5
Speed: 13 (65 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 5
Skills: Strength (very strong)
Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Hustle (Your attacks against foes have -2 Accuracy. After the first time you miss an attack during an encounter, the -2 Accuracy penalty is removed and you gain +4 Attack until the end of the encounter.), Swarm (When you are below 20 HP, your Bug-type attacks deal +4 damage.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +6)
Metal Claw - Melee Steel Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.
Bug Bite - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if the target is holding a Berry, you steal it and immediately consume it.
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Biology: Egg Group - Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Caves / Mountains / Rainforests
Proficiencies: Bug / Steel / Fangs

Heracross live within forests, feeding on tree sap and honey. Their most famous features are their large horns, which they use to defend themselves from foes. In battle, Heracross can use their horns to toss foes far away. They dig their sharp claws into tree bark before slipping under the grasps of enemies and sliding their horns underneath. They may charge at foes to frighten them before tossing them away. Heracross take strong pride in their horns. Their exoskeletons are very tough, able to withstand even the strongest blows. Heracross are very docile Pokťmon, content doing nothing more than eating tree sap all day. They will quickly become aggressive should something interrupt their feeding, and will charge relentlessly at distractions with their horn. Though capable of flight, they are clumsy in the air and can only stay aloft for short periods of time.

Durant live in large colonies in the dirt of tropical rainforests and the sides of mountains. These underground colonies consist of complex, interconnected tunnels that allow for fast access to many different areas of their territories. Their fearsome jaws can snap the bones of victims much larger than themselves, while their hard steel armor is difficult for most foes to penetrate. Their mandibles are strong enough to crush stone, helping them dig tunnels with ease. In a colony, each Durant has a specific task--gathering food, protecting the hive, or raising young, for example. Even in certain tasks there are further divisions, such as gathering food only from certain quadrants of land. When their colonies are threatened, Durant will lay down their lives to defend their families. Their main predators are Heatmor, who have evolved the ability to spew fire solely to consume Durant. Durant work together to defend their colonies against Heatmor, strategically blocking certain areas of with damp mud and leaves and biting their attackers in particularly vulnerable areas.
138

Heracross 

Pinsir 

Bug / Fighting - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Bug - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 10

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 14

Special Attack: 4

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 15

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Skills: Strength (very strong)

Passives: Moxie (+1 Attack), Guts (While afflicted, your Attack is +2.), Swarm (When you are below 20 HP, your Bugtype attacks deal +4 damage)
Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +2, Effect +4) Chip Away - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. Chip Away has +2 on Accuracy Check if used against a target with a Defense or Special Defense raising passive. Megahorn - Melee Bug Attack: 1/day 5d12. Close Combat - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Defense and Special Defense are -2 for 10 mins.
Biology: Egg Group - Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 13 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Forests Proficiencies: Bug / Fighting / Horned / Martial (No Punches/Kicks)

Passives: Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Harden (+1 Defense), Swords Dance (+2 Attack), Hyper Cutter (Your Attack cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.), Mold Breaker (Your attacks ignore any passives that would redirect, negate or weaken your attacks.)
Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)
Brick Break - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. Destroy any Walls within 5 ft. You may target Walls with Brick Break without needing to roll Accuracy Check or damage.
X-Scissor - Melee Bug Attack: 3/day 3d10.
Guillotine - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day. On hit, roll 1d20. On a natural result of 17, 18, 19, or 20, the target is set to 0 HP.
Biology: Egg Group - Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 13 Days, Diet Carnivore, Habitat - Forests / Jungle
Proficiencies: Bug / Fighting / Bruiser

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2.

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 139

Pinsir hunt using their two large horns. They rush at and grip foes with these antlers, shaking them wildly. Their thorny protrusions stab victims as Pinsir crush them in half. If Pinsir are unable to tear their prey in half, they will toss them far away by swinging their heads. Pinsir hate the cold and will dig burrows in forests to hibernate if the weather stays chilly for too long. They become sluggish if exposed to low temperatures, but will be rejuvenated once it warms again. In areas with cool nights, Pinsir sleep near the roots of trees in underground burrows or covered in leaves, while in places with warmer ones, they choose to sleep in or near the treetops. In addition to hunting, Pinsir also enjoy eating tree sap. Individual Pinsir have different preferences as to which kinds of trees have the best sap.

Shuckle 

Bug / Rock - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 12 Defense: 23 Special Defense: 23

Speed: 1 (5 ft.) Attack: 1

Special Attack: 1

Skills: Tough Cookie (lowers chance of death)

Passives: Exposed (When you move or use an attack, you have ≠8 Defense and ≠8 Special Defense until your next turn. You also deal ≠8 damage with all attacks.), Sturdy (If you would be brought from Max HP to 0 or below, you are instead brought to 1 HP.)

Moves (Attack +0, Special Attack +0, Effect +0)

Rollout - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Rollout against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Rollout's damage.

Bug Bite - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if the target is holding a Berry, you steal it and immediately consume it.

Sticky Web - Ranged(25ft burst) Bug Effect: 3/day. Place the Sticky Web Hazard in the area surrounding you. Sticky Web Hazard has the following ability: Foes moving through Sticky Web Hazard on the ground have -25ft movement per turn, to a minimum of 5ft. This Hazard disappears after 2 mins.

Shuckle live among rocks within cracks and crevices. They secrete a corrosive fluid from their feet that can dis- Biology: Egg Group - Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet -

solve holes into boulders, tucking themselves in and with- Herbivore, Habitat - Beaches / Caves / Mountains

drawing their limbs for safety in their makeshift shelters. Their shells are made of one of the hardest substances

Proficiencies: Bug / Rock

known to man, and can weather most kinds of damage:

physical attacks, weather, acids, flames, and electric shocks

all fail to scratch their shells. To avoid damage, Shuckle tuck

themselves into their shells and remain perfectly still. They

subsist on diets of only Berries. When they find Berries,

they store some within their shells. They then begin to de-

compose, ferment, and mix with their own bodily fluids to

become a pulpy liquid. Depending on the type of Berries

stored, the resulting juice can have a variety of interesting

effects.

140

Volbeat 

Bug - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Flight (can fly), Genetic Relation (can breed to produce Illumise), Glow (can produce light)

Passives: Tail Glow (+3 Special Attack), Prankster (Your attacks that do not deal damage on hit have Priority.), Swarm (When you are below 20 HP, your Bug-type attacks deal +4 damage)

Volbeat become active late in the evening, flying about in large swarms over freshwater ponds. Volbeat congregate in large numbers near single Illumise, attracted by their alluring scent. Using their taillights and led by the Illumise, Volbeat swarms will draw complex geometric figures in the night sky in hopes of impressing them. By flashing and adjusting the intensity of their lights, Volbeat can converse with one another even when far away. When threatened, they will attempt to disorient foes with their lights before flying off. Volbeat take the condition of their ponds very seriously, as the reflections of their swarms' lights on the water play a major role in their displays. If their ponds become filthy, swarms may attempt to migrate to new, cleaner ones--but only if the resident Illumise approve of the move.
In the evening, Illumise will release gathered pollen to emit an alluring odor that coaxes Volbeat into following them in flight. They will guide them into constructing complex geometric patterns in the sky with their taillights. The more intricate the design an Illumise can lead its Volbeat in creating, the more highly it is regarded among its peers. It has been determined that their scent-producing glands are located at the base of their antennae; should these glands become damaged, the Illumise will lose control over their Volbeat swarms, which will then disperse in confused disarray. During mating season, Illumise mate with just one lucky Volbeat in their swarms, selected based on the brightness and size of its taillight. The other members of the swarm aren't fazed by their rejections, however, and will simply wait it out for the next mating season to arrive the following year.

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +4)
Signal Beam - Ranged(15ft beam) Bug Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Confused.
Zen Headbutt - Melee Psychic Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Play Rough - Melee Fairy Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Illumise 

Bug - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Alluring (attracts others with their aroma), Flight (can fly), Genetic Relation (can breed to produce Volbeat), Glow (can produce light)

Passives: Charm (+1 Defense), Oblivious (You are immune to Infatuation.), Prankster (Your attacks that do not deal damage on hit have Priority.), Tinted Lens (Your resisted attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)
Moonlight - Melee Fairy Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or yourself. The target is healed HP equal to half of the target's Max HP. If you are within Sunny Weather, the target is healed HP equal to 3/4ths of the target's Max HP instead.

Shared Biology: Egg Group - Bug / Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Fields / Forests / Ponds
Proficiencies: Bug / Winged

Encore - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. If the target can, it must use the last move it did for the next 3 rounds or until it no longer can.
Bug Buzz - Ranged(20ft) Bug Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

141

Deino / Zweilous / Hydreigon 

Deino

Dark / Dragon - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 5

Skills: -
Passives: Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Hustle (Your attacks against foes have -2 Accuracy. After the first time you miss an attack during an encounter, the -2 Accuracy penalty is removed and you gain +4 Attack until the end of the encounter.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)

Dragon Rage - Ranged(5ft) Dragon Special Attack: 3/day 25. Do not add bonuses of any kind to this damage.

Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Headbutt - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Zweilous

Dark / Dragon - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 7

Skills: -

Passives: Focus Energy, Scary Face (+2 Speed), Hustle

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Dragon Breath - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: AtWill 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Deino live in deep caves where little to no light penetrates. Because they live in total darkness, these Pokťmon have little use for sight; consequently, they are functionally blind. Though they still have eyes on their heads, they are severely underdeveloped and almost always covered by fur. Unlike some other underground species, Deino do not have particularly acute senses of smell, hearing, or even taste to make up for their lack of vision. They wander aimlessly about caverns, tackling and biting randomly in hopes of knocking down or injuring unwary prey. Deino will often tackle at nothing, or conversely, headbutt straight into cavern walls or boulders. They are usually covered in wounds because of this behavior. Deino are a very hardy species that can withstand many injuries. They are also not very picky eaters; if they tackle anything that even appears to be moving, they will attempt to consume the object or creature in question. However, if they do chomp on something they like, they will develop a strong association between what they are currently smelling and what they are tasting. If their poor senses of smell detect the same odor again, these Pokťmon will begin snapping ferociously all about.

Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Slam has -2 during Accuracy Check.

142

Zweilous are functionally blind because their eyes are underdeveloped. They utilize a haphazard hunting method by tackling into thin air and biting viciously at seeminglyrandom targets. Zweilous hope to catch nearby victims offguard. The hard skulls and strong jaws of each of their heads make quick work of most prey. Zweilous are absolutely voracious eaters that virtually never stop hunting. They will search for food in one area and attempt to completely clear it of anything that is moving before simply wandering to another area and doing the same. Their heads even compete with each other for food; the heads that manage to eat more become the leaders of the pairs and are able to pick which direction to wander into in search of more food. The only thing that Zweilous appear to do nearly as much as look for food is bicker amongst themselves; their two heads can commonly be seen attacking each other in vicious arguments. Zweilous will often bear more scars from themselves than from outside attackers.

Hydreigon
Dark / Dragon - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 13

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Focus Energy, Scary Face, Hustle, Levitate (You are immune to Ground-type moves while you are airborne.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +6, Effect +6)

Dragon Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Dragon Rush - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 3d10. Dragon

Rush has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 16

or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Hydreigon are widely regarded as some of the most bru- Hyper Voice - Ranged(30ft beam) Normal Special Attack: 1/

tal, ruthless Pokťmon in existence. They scour caves and

day 3d12.

highlands, attacking and consuming anything and every-

thing they can see moving; luckily, their poor eyesight al-

lows for smaller, faster, or smarter prey to avoid detection from these voracious Pokťmon rather easily. Hydreigon have three heads. However, the two on either side of the center heads lack brains. Despite the lack of a brain in ei-

Biology: Egg Group - Dragon / Monster, Egg Hatch Rate - 20 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Caves / Mountains

Evolution: Deino

Zweilous

Hydreigon

ther head, Hydreigon can still use these heads to eat and breathe. They will wield all three mouths in tandem to vi-

Proficiencies: Dark / Dragon / Fang / Elemental Attacks

ciously and relentlessly bite foes until they have fallen.

143

Impidimp / Morgrem / Grimmsnarl 

Impidimp

Dark / Fairy - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 3 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 6

Skills: -

Passives: Confide (+1 Special Defense), Prankster (Your attacks that do not deal damage on hit have Priority.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Fake Out - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 2d6. Fake Out has Priority. Fake Out can only be used as your first action during an encounter. On hit, the target is Stunned.
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Flatter - Ranged(10ft) Dark Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Special Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.

Morgrem

Dark / Fairy - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 10

Skills: -
Passives: Confide, Fake Tears (+2 Special Attack), Prankster
Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)

Assurance - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target was already attacked this round, Assurance deals +1d8 damage.
Sucker Punch - Melee Dark Attack: 1/day 3d8. Sucker Punch is used as a Reaction. When you are a target of a melee move, use Sucker Punch to attack the attacker before the enemy rolls their Accuracy Check against you. You must still roll an accuracy check for Sucker Punch.
Swagger - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.

Impidimp are pesky creatures that thrive on feelings of annoyance and frustration. They will sneak into homes and steal tiny things like keys and glasses before retreating into the shadows. There, they will wait for the occupants to notice their missing belongings before greedily sucking in their negative emotions through their nostrils. More clever individuals may create roadblocks in woodland paths or move around signposts to disorient and frustrate travelers. Groups of Impidimp can wreak havoc on rural villages by terrorizing townsfolk with tiny inconveniences. Impidimp detest silver so much they cannot even approach it. Homes near woodlands where Impidimp dwell may hang silver talismans on their doorknobs to keep the Pokťmon out. While Impidimp are inherently weak to Steel-type attacks, they seem to especially despise pure silver.

144

Morgrem will try to lure people into the woods and make them lose their ways, allowing them to feed on feelings of frustration and despair for weeks at a time. Morgrem will alter signposts to mislead travelers or imitate the calls of children and Pokťmon in need in order to trick good Samaritans into entering their territories. These Pokťmon are also treacherous; if caught, they will get down on all fours and pretend to beg for forgiveness. Then, when their opponents' guards are lowered, Morgrem will lash out with their spear-like hair to stab them.

Grimmsnarl

Dark / Fairy - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 12

Skills: Reach (melee range is 25 ft.)

Though rarely sighted by humans, Grimmsnarl are said to make their homes deep within dark woodlands, venturing out in the dead of night to visit unlucky homes. They are thought to seek out the houses of those who are discontent with their lots in life and feast upon their despair and frustration. Though Grimmsnarl return to their woodlands before sunrise, they are said to lash out viciously at those who sight them while feeding. Grimmsnarl can manipulate their hair to wrap around their foes much like tentacles. They also can function like pseudo-muscle fibers, wrapping around their arms and legs to strengthen their blows. It is said that after a Grimmsnarl visits a home, it will leave behind a telltale scattering of black hair.

Passives: Confide, Fake Tears, Pickpocket (When you are hit by a melee attack, you steal the offender's held item, if any.), Prankster
Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +6, Effect +3)
False Surrender - Melee Dark Attack: 1/day 3d12. You can't miss targets with less than 20 Defense.
Spirit Break - Melee Fairy Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.
Hammer Arm - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Fairy / Human - Like, Egg Hatch Rate 10 Days, Diet - Psiotroph, Habitat - Urban Abandoned / Woodlands

Evolution: Impidimp

Morgrem

Grimmsnarl

Proficiencies: Dark / Fairy / Psychic (Effects Only) (Grimmsnarl) /Bruiser (Grimmsnarl) / Tricky

This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2. 145

Pawniard / Bisharp / Kingambit 

Pawniard

Dark / Steel - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 4

Skills: -

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Scary Face (+2 Speed), Defiant (If a foe lowers any of your stats, you have +2 Attack until your lowered stats are returned to normal.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)

Fury Cutter - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Fury Cutter against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Fury Cutter's damage.
Feint Attack - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense.
Metal Claw - Melee Steel Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.

Bisharp

Dark/ Steel - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 15

Special Attack: 6

Skills: -

Passives: Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Scary Face, Swords Dance (+2 Attack), Defiant, Inner Focus (You are immune to being Stunned.), Pressure (If you are hit by a 3/day attack, the attacker can't use that attack for the remainder of the day.)

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)
Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.

Pawniard prowl around in packs on rocky badlands and highlands. They are always led by a single Bisharp to which they are entirely subservient. These Pokťmon essentially exercise no judgement on their own; they only act when commanded to do so by their Bisharp. Pawniard viciously attack foes using the many blades on their bodies. They will latch onto their victims by jumping onto them and sinking their torso blades into their flesh before swinging their hands and heads around to further slice foes. They will clang their blades together following a successful strike. While a single Pawniard alone is capable of significant harm to a foe, the work of a pack can easily be fatal to unprotected opponents. Pawniard do not react to their own injuries or wounds, as they are entirely occupied in taking down the victims their Bisharp have selected. These Pokťmon will sharpen their blades on river rocks when they dull; this can be an arduous process, given the number of blades they possess. Each Pawniard has its favorite sharpening stone, and will become quite upset if it is touched or otherwise moved. If the Bisharp leader of a pack goes missing, the strongest Pawniard of the pack will be quickly promoted to leader once it evolves. Though they would never dream of betraying their leader, individual Pawniard in a pack will train tirelessly to achieve this spot should their Bisharp ever fall.

Night Slash - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Night Slash is a critical hit.

Iron Head - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

146

Bisharp are merciless Pokťmon that are almost always found surrounded by a pack of Pawniard. They command their Pawniard to savagely maim prey, but will always deliver the finishing blows to victims; they will not even blink when doing so. Though completely capable of overwhelming and taking out foes much larger than themselves, packs of Pawniard will cease to attack opponents once they are rendered immobile so that their leader Bisharp can finish them off. There can only be one Bisharp in a pack; if a Pawniard in a pack evolves, it will have to fight the leading Bisharp for control of the group. Losers are exiled and left pack-less, forced to roam in search of stray Pawniard to recruit or another Bisharp with Pawniard to duel. Bisharp demand strict obedience from their Pawniard and are ruthless in retribution if crossed. Bisharp whose head blades are chipped will retire permanently and become lone hunters, unable to hold command of a Pawniard pack.

Kingambit

Dark / Steel - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 14 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 16

Special Attack: 6

Skills: -

Passives: Iron Defense, Scary Face, Swords Dance, Defiant, Inner Focus, Supreme Overlord (When you join combat, your Attack and Special Attack are each raised +1 for each ally who has already been knocked out in the current encounter, for 10 mins. Supreme Overlord can only raise your Attack and Special Attack each up to +4.)

Moves (Attack +8, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Not all Bisharp are destined to evolve into Kingambit; in Kowtow Cleave - Melee Dark Attack: 1/day 3d12. You can't

fact, most never do, as only those who are able to defeat all miss targets with less than 15 Defense.

other rivals will be able to rise to the task. As Bisharp defeat other leader Bisharp, they assume control of their packs until they amass what amount to armies of Pawniard and Bisharp; it is only then that they are ready to evolve.

Retaliate - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 1d12. If the target knocked out an ally during this round, Retaliate has 5d12 for damage instead.

Kingambit have proven themselves in combat and no long- Guillotine - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day. On hit, roll 1d20.

er participate in fighting themselves. Instead, they com-

On a natural result of 17, 18, 19, or 20, the target is set to

mand their armies to fight in their steads, particularly

0 HP.

against other Kingambit armies. As they frequently rise to

the top due to brute strength rather than wit, however, their strategies often consist of little more than rushing at foes with huge numbers of soldiers. Kingambit almost never stand up, instead resting on their armor-like hair; they

Biology: Egg Group - Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Badlands / Mountains / Rivers

even slide across the ground on their hair rather than walk- Evolution: Pawniard

Bisharp

ing. Kingambit will only fight when the situation is dire, and

are not above dirty tactics; they are known to feign begging Proficiencies: Dark / Steel / Slashing

Kingambit

for mercy before cleaving down their foes as they hesitate

or show compassion.

147

Zigzagoon (Urban) / Linoone (Urban) / Obstagoon 

Zigzagoon (Urban)

Dark / Normal - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Stealth (can make stealth skill checks)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Tail Whip (+1 Attack)
Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +1, Effect +3)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Mud Sport - Melee Ground Effect: At-Will. Put a Mud Coat on the target or yourself. The Coat has the following ability: Reduce damage from Electric attacks that hit you by 10. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.
Pin Missile - Ranged(10ft) Bug Attack: At-Will 1d4. Pin Missile has -2 during Accuracy Check. Pin Missile is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Linoone (Urban)

Dark / Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Stealth

Passives: Growl, Tail Whip, Quick Feet (While afflicted, your Speed is +2.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +5)

Headbutt - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Night Slash - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Night Slash is a critical hit.

These Zigzagoon are thought to be the most primitive form of Zigzagoon in the world. These Pokťmon are restless and constantly on the move. Zigzagoon carry within them boundless energy to constantly zigzag there was everywhere. Zigzagoon are troublemakers that love to start fights. They will charge at passerby in a zigzag pattern in hopes of getting them to attack. This tends to work better on other Pokťmon, however, as humans often think they are simply trying to play around. Zigzagoon will get quite irritated when others are not taking it seriously, but people commonly find their annoyance to be endearing as well. These Pokťmon can be found in all sorts of environments, where they can be seen making messes and generally being a disturbance to others. In cities, upturned rubbish bins are commonly the work of Zigzagoon.

Double Edge - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

Evolution Shift compatible with Zigzagoon family (498)
148

Linoone are troublemakers that are quick to start fights. They are known for being very reckless, taunting enemies much stronger than themselves by sticking out their tongues and making obscene gestures with their claws. Should these incendiary tactics fail, Linoone may also charge at targets in games of coward in order to enrage them. In battle, Linoone will rush headfirst at opponents at full speed, throwing their whole weights into attacks to deliver powerful tackles. Their recklessness means that they may also throw themselves terribly off balance if they miss.

Obstagoon

Dark / Normal - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 10 Special Attack: 6

Skills: Stealth

Obstagoon are resilient creatures that will do whatever it takes to survive. Their thick fur helps them stay warm during chilly nights. They never make the first move in combat. Instead, Obstagoon will cross their arms and let out deafening shouts to taunt opponents into attacking first. These yells are loud enough to make foes stagger, clouding their judgement and encouraging them to strike rashly. When finally attacked, Obstagoon will expertly block the blows before throwing their foes off balance and counterattacking with their sharp claws. Obstagoon are always looking for a fight and will try to goad passerby into attacking by taunting them with their shouts.

Passives: Growl, Scary Face (+2 Speed), Tail Whip, Defiant (If a foe lowers any of your stats, you have +2 Attack until your lowered stats are returned to normal.), Guts (While afflicted, your Attack is +2.), Reckless (Your attacks that damage yourself on hit, deal +4 damage.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +6)
Counter - Melee Fighting Effect: 1/day. Counter is used as a Reaction. After an enemy hits you with a melee Attack move that deals damage, use Counter to deal exactly twice the damage to the enemy that you received. Do not apply weakness or resistances.
Obstruct - Self Dark Effect: 1/day. Obstruct is used as a Reaction. If you would be hit by an attack, use Obstruct to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack. Also, if the ignored attack was a melee attack, the attacker's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Taunt - Ranged(20ft) Dark Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target may only use attacks that target you or your allies for 1 min.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Fields / Grasslands / Woodlands / Urban

Evolution: Zigzagoon (Urban)

Linoone (Urban)

Obstagoon

Proficiencies: Dark / Bruiser (Obstagoon) / Normal Block

149

Houndour / Houndoom 

Houndour

Dark / Fire - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 3 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Early Bird (You roll twice during checks to wake from Sleep and use the higher result.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)

Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Smog - Ranged(5ft) Poison Special Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you got 13 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned. Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Houndoom
Dark / Fire - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 48 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 8 Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 10 Special Attack: 12 Skills: Firestarter Passives: Leer, Nasty Plot (+1 Special Attack), Early Bird, Flash Fire (You are immune to Fire-type attacks. If you would be hit by a Fire-type attack, your Fire type attacks deal +4 damage for 2 mins.), Unnerve (Foes within 25ft of you cannot consume food.)

Houndour live and hunt in packs. They are extremely loyal to each other; if one member of a pack is attacked, the others will gang up on the foe. Packs of Houndour each develop their own unique sets of calls. When hunting, they use these calls to alert each other of their locations. Then, they work together to corner their prey; they have demonstrated to be intelligent enough to form complex, unique strategies for catching prey depending on their surroundings and the skills of their quarry. Houndour demonstrate some of the most efficient teamwork in the Pokťmon world. Around dawn, packs will howl ominously at the moon to indicate to other nearby packs of the boundaries of their territories. Unlike most pack hunters, Houndour packs have no true leaders. Rather, they all are equals and split responsibilities fairly; thus, there is never any infighting for dominance. Houndour are very affectionate towards those they care about; generally, this means other pack members, but for domestic ones this can mean trainers as well.

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +6, Effect +5)

Fire Fang - Melee Fire Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is randomly either Stunned or Burned.
Flamethrower - Ranged(20ft beam) Fire Special Attack: 3/ day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Carnivore, Habitat - Badlands / Woodlands / Volcanoes

Evolution: Houndour

Houndoom

Proficiencies: Dark / Fire / Fangs

Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 150

Houndoom packs are so in sync that members evolve

Inkay usually inhabit beaches and shallow tide pools, as

roughly at the same time, within minutes of each other.

they prefer to be on land even though they must remain

Houndoom packs have very clearly defined leaders; individ- moist at all times. These unassuming Pokťmon seem to be

uals whose horns curve back the most take charge. The

rather defenseless at first, making them common targets

cries of these Pokťmon are described to be eerie and unearthly. The howls of Houndoom are so discomforting that many forest Pokťmon will instinctively return to their shelters upon hearing them. Houndoom packs hunt by encircling an area and then setting it ablaze. They then go after prey flushed out of hiding, working together to corner and defeat them. Houndoom packs share their kills evenly; the leader receives the same portion as the lowliest pack member. The fire that Houndoom breathe, in addition to smelling strongly of sulfur, contains a mix of toxins that cause a searing pain that lasts beyond the burns themselves; the agony can last indefinitely until treated.

for inexperienced predators. However, Inkay hold a surprising ability that allows them to escape predation the vast majority of the time; the spots on their mantles can flash with lights, allowing Inkay to influence the minds of all that gaze into them. Though they cannot yet fully manipulate people or other Pokťmon, they can sufficiently influence them enough to drain their will to fight. Inkay use this technique to hunt immobile prey with ease by luring them in with lights and then grasping them with their tentacles; they will also use their lights to escape from confused predators. It is believed that Inkay will flash their lights in complex patterns to communicate with one another across dis-

tances. Curiously, these Pokťmon have a habit of turning

themselves upside-down for no apparent reason; some

believe this action strengthens their abilities.

151

Inkay / Malamar 

Inkay

Dark / Psychic - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Glow (can produce light), Hover (can hover), Swimmer (can swim), Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)

Passives: Suction Cups (You cannot be moved by a foe's attacks.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Peck - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Constrict - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d6. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Malamar

Dark / Psychic - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 7

Malamar are masters of manipulation; by waving their tentacles and flashing the lights on their mantles hypnotically, they can manipulate those who see them into trances. In the wild, Malamar hypnotize prey into drawing close before wrapping victims in their tentacles and excreting digestive fluids onto them. Their two primary fins are surprisingly sharp and can easily cut unprotected flesh. These Pokťmon are sinister, manipulating others into dull states where simple suggestion may influence those who are weak willed to do their bidding.

Skills: Climber, Gilled, Glow, Hover, Intelligence (very smart), Swimmer, Telekinetic
Passives: Infiltrator (Hindering terrain and Walls do not affect you or your attacks.), Suction Cups
Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Water 2, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Beaches / Ocean Abyss

Evolution: Inkay

Malamar

Proficiencies: Dark / Psychic / Hexwork / Tricky

Hypnosis - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Effect: 3/day. Hypnosis has -4 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is put Asleep.

Psycho Cut - Ranged(20ft) Psychic Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Psycho Cut is a critical hit.

Night Slash - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Night Slash is a critical hit.

152

Maschiff / Mabosstiff 

Maschiff

Dark - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Tracker (can follow scents)

Passives: Intimidate (+1 Defense), Leer (+1 Attack), Guard Dog (If a foe's effect would cause you to flee or be moved, instead your Attack is raised +1 for 10 mins.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Lick - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d8. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Mabosstiff

Dark - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Maschiff are well-known for their signature scowls--head askew and teeth bared, these faces are meant to strike fear in the hearts of onlookers. While this works well enough against wild Pokťmon, many people, particularly children, find their glares quite humorous. Even crying children will burst out in laughter when seeing their faces. Maschiff are fiercely obedient and loyal to their masters, whether that be a head Mabosstiff or their trainers. Packs of them can be seen prowling city streets and protecting their territories. They will give their lives to defend their masters without a second thought. Maschiff are surprisingly bulky; layers of thick fat protect them from physical attacks. They also possess powerful jaws that can pulverize boulders, which they use with impunity to protect each other. Two separate Maschiff packs rarely get along; however, decisions regarding whether to fight or coexist are ultimately up to the head Mabosstiff.
Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Grasslands

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 7
Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 13 Special Attack: 6
Skills: Tracker
Passives: Intimidate, Leer, Scary Face (+2 Speed), Guard Dog, Stakeout (When you attack a target who has just joined the encounter since your last turn, you deal +4 damage.)
Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +5)
Jaw Lock - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d6 rounds.
Swagger - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.
Comeuppance - Melee Dark Effect: 1/day. Comeuppance is used as a Reaction. After an adjacent enemy hits you with a move that deals damage, use Comeuppance to deal exactly 1.5x the damage to the enemy that you received. Do not apply weakness or resistances.

Evolution: Maschiff

Mabosstiff

Proficiencies: Dark / Fangs

153

There is only ever one Mabosstiff at the head of a Maschiff pack; if a Maschiff evolves, it will either usurp the current Mabosstiff boss, or be defeated trying. Mabosstiff rarely see any direct fighting themselves, as most disputes between Mabosstiff bosses are settled through their packs. When two Mabosstiff meet, the will settle terms regarding territorial boundaries and resource distribution amongst themselves; it is then up to their packs to enforce these rules. Mabosstiff are very fond of children and are surprisingly gentle most of the time. Small Pokťmon may even come to Mabosstiff and their packs for protection. When their packs are in danger, however, they quickly become ferocious beasts. Mabosstiff store energy in their large dewlaps, releasing it in times of distress to blow enemies away. As a Mabosstiff grows old, it will designate a heir Maschiff to take its place. When the time comes, it is up to the heir to evolve and dethrone the boss that appointed it.

When constantly pampered by humans in lush tropical climates, Meowth are more prideful, selfish, and sneaky. Meowth are very protective of their gold coins. They will viciously slash at those who dirty their coins or otherwise damage their pride and are said to hold long grudges against them. They are sly creatures that will exploit the foe's weak points in battle to ensure they end quickly. Even feral Meowth are quite fickle when it comes to caring for them, and they are only receptive to trainers that cater to their every whim. When removed from their relaxed habitat, these Meowth may be especially upset by their suddenly less pampered lifestyles and will commonly act out.

154

Meowth / Persian (Tropical Climate) 

Tropical Persian are easily recognizable due to their round faces. Persian have superbly soft fur that almost seems to glow silver in the light. Though they may act haughty at first, these Pokťmon are dirty fighters that prefer to resort to sneak attacks and sucker punches to take opponents by surprise. They even seem to enjoy torturing their prey before finishing them off. Their arrogance also sometimes causes them to underestimate foes, however. Though differently colored, the gem on these Persian heads are made of the same material as those in other climates.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Urban

Evolution: Meowth

Persian

Proficiencies: Dark / Fangs / Normal Block / Slashing

Meowth (Tropical Climate)

Dark - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Stealth (can make stealth skill checks)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Screech (+2 Attack), Technician (When rolling damage, replace any rolled 1s or 2s with 3.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)
Fake Out - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 2d6. Fake Out has Priority. Fake Out can only be used as your first action during an encounter. On hit, the target is Stunned.
Fury Swipes - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Fury Swipes has -2 during Accuracy Check. Fury Swipes is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Feint Attack - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense.

Persian (Tropical Climate)

Dark - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Stealth
Passives: Growl, Nasty Plot (+1 Special Attack), Screech, Fur Coat (If hit by a move using the Attack stat, you only take half the damage you would take.), Rattled (When a foe hits you with a Bug-type, Ghost-type, or Dark-type attack, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins. This can stack.), Technician
Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +6)
Taunt - Ranged(20ft) Dark Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target may only use attacks that target you or your allies for 1 min.
Power Gem - Ranged(20ft) Rock Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.
Dark Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dark Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Evolution Shift compatible with Meowth family (474), Meowth (Cold Climate) family (636)
155

Murkrow / Honchkrow 

Murkrow

Dark / Flying - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight) Hit Points: 36 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Super Luck (Attacks are critical hits on natural 1820), Insomnia (You are immune to being put to Sleep.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +4)

Astonish - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Pursuit - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d6. Pursuit deals +6 damage to a target if they ended their turn further away from you during the start of their turn.
Wing Attack - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d8.

Honchkrow

Dark / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 14

Special Attack: 12

Skills: Flight

Murkrow are reputed to be bringers of ill fortune. They enjoy playing pranks on passerby, though their definitions of prank may be more sinister than the traditional one. Murkrow will aggravate travelers into chasing them and then lead them down winding paths in dark forests before simply flying away, leaving them stranded and lost in the middle of nowhere. Urban Murkrow play similar tricks on people in dark alleyways in sketchy neighborhoods. They enjoy collecting shiny things; there are reports of Murkrow swooping down from the sky and snatching rings right off the hands of newlyweds. People who come across one of their stashes will commonly find stolen objects dating back decades. Murkrow are often underlings for their evolutions Honchkrow, stealing for their bosses' hoards.

Passives: Moxie (+1 Attack), Nasty Plot (+1 Special Attack), Super Luck, Insomnia
Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +6, Effect +3)

Biology: Egg Group - Flying, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Swamps / Urban / Woodlands

Swagger - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.
Night Slash - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Night Slash is a critical hit.

Evolution: Murkrow

Dusk Stone Honchkrow

Proficiencies: Dark / Flying / Avian / Hexwork / Tricky / Winged

Dark Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dark Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

156

Though Honchkrow have large wings that let them fly long distances, they rarely leave their nests. They instead hire Murkrow henchmen to do their biddings, paying them with shiny objects and food. Their Murkrow cronies collect food and valuables to bring back. Honchkrow will then dole out just enough pay their henchmen and take the rest for themselves. As they wait for their Murkrow to return, Honchkrow enjoy preening their feathers. When necessary, they can emit a distinctive cry to summon all of their Murkrow to them; over one-hundred Murkrow may respond to a single call. Though Murkrow cronies are rewarded generously, they are also punished mercilessly for errors; Honchkrow will take flight to hunt down disappointments in order to enforce total loyalty from their henchmen. They are extremely territorial, leaving their nests is to defend their domains from other Honchkrow in duels to the death. Wild Honchkrow will only ever dirty their feathers in order to deal the finishing blow on particularly troublesome enemies.

Nickit are the bane of woodland campers. They are infamous for their plundering of campsites right under the noses of their owners. Nickit have soft pads on their paws that silence their steps, letting them sneak into the nests of other Pokťmon without detection. Then, after grabbing their prizes, they use their bushy tails to swipe away any footprints they have left behind. Nest owners will later return to find their food supplies missing, but no sign of any intruders. Nickit are so skilled at thievery that they rarely need to hunt at all, instead subsisting entirely on what they scavenge from another Pokťmon. Nickit are cunning, but cautious Pokťmon. They are rarely caught because they will bolt at the first sign of trouble, which their sensitive ears can detect. Nickit will patiently wait for hours in hiding for targets to leave their nests; even after this, they will wait a little bit longer to make sure that are not planning to return soon after.

157

Nickit / Thievul 

Nickit

Dark - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 3 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Stealth (can make stealth skill checks)

Passives: Hone Claws (+2 Attack), Stakeout (When you attack a target who has just joined the encounter since your last turn, you deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.
Pursuit - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d6. Pursuit deals +6 damage to a target if they ended their turn further away from you during the start of their turn.
Tail Slap - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Tail Slap has 2 during Accuracy Check. Tail Slap is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Thievul

Dark - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Stealth

Passives: Hone Claws, Nasty Plot (+1 Special Attack), Stakeout

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)

Crafty Thievul have turned larceny into a form of art. Their silent footsteps leave no trace behind after a swipe from their tails, while their lithe bodies can slip through tight cracks to access hidden goods. Thievul raid the food supplies of other Pokťmon, but they also have developed a taste for eggs. Skilled Thievul can even snatch eggs from right under tired mothers by waiting until they doze off for a nap. These Pokťmon will stalk forests and woodlands near areas of high traffic. When they spot a Pokťmon who seems like a good target, they will surreptitiously mark them with their scent and stalk them home. Thievul will then wait for the target to leave again before sneaking in to plunder their nests. Though they are normally solitary, skulks of Thievul may temporarily work together to dispatch enemy Pokťmon.

Assurance - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target was already attacked this round, Assurance deals +1d8 damage.
Thief - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, steals the target's held item, if any.
Sucker Punch - Melee Dark Attack: 1/day 3d8. Sucker Punch is used as a Reaction. When you are a target of a melee move, use Sucker Punch to attack the attacker before the enemy rolls their Accuracy Check against you. You must still roll an accuracy check for Sucker Punch.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Fields / Forests / Woodlands

Evolution: Nickit

Thievul

Proficiencies: Dark / Tricky

158

Poochyena / Mightyena 

Poochyena

Dark - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Tracker (can follow scents)

Passives: Howl (+1 Attack), Run Away (+1 Speed), Quick Feet (While afflicted, your Speed is +2.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +1, Effect +2)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Swagger - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.

Poochyena are known to be persistent, yet cowardly fighters. They have acute senses of smell that allow them to track foes down without fail, and will tenaciously chase down their prey until they catch them. Oftentimes, they will pursue foes until they tire out and can no longer flee. As omnivores, Poochyena can eat nearly anything; in fact, they often will try to bite anything that moves. Running from aggressive Poochyena will only encourage them to begin chasing. Instead, attempting to intimidate them by staring them down and feigning lunges is a far more effective tactic. They will cower and flee when confronted, even when against smaller or weaker foes. Though Poochyena bare their large fangs against all attackers, they will only pursue things that they believe they have scared. They will become submissive towards those who appear unfazed by their displays, often running away with their tail between their legs.

Mightyena

Dark - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Tracker

Passives: Intimidate (+1 Defense), Moxie (+1 Attack), Scary Face (+2 Speed), Quick Feet, Rattled (When a foe hits you with a Bug-type, Ghost-type, or Dark-type attack, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins. This can stack.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Take Down - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Carnivore, Habitat - Forests / Grasslands / Savannas

Play Rough - Melee Fairy Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Evolution: Poochyena

Mightyena

Proficiencies: Dark / Fangs

159

Mightyena hunt in packs of roughly ten individuals, prowling around grasslands and forests. These packs are highly coordinated, able to execute complex strategies in order to take down foes much larger than themselves. Before attacking, Mightyena will flatten their bodies and emit low, guttural growls. These sounds will alert nearby pack members of disturbances, signaling for them to prepare for attack as well. Mightyena packs have very well-defined pecking orders; alpha Mightyena lead their packs and eat first after taking down prey, while the omegas always trail at the end and eat whatever is left over after all the others have finished eating. This mentality carries on to even trained Mightyena, who will only obey directions from skilled trainers who have demonstrated leadership and dominance. They show submissiveness by licking their trainers' faces and rolling onto their backs when asked.

Purrloin are often found in urban areas posing as a stray Pokťmon in desperate need of food and water. When compassionate passersby stoop down to help, they will quickly steal their jewelry, wallets, or other valuable items before dashing away. Even when caught, Purrloin have the inexplicable ability to put on ruses of cuteness and cause victims to forgive them without trouble. Many believe Purrloin only steal for fun; Purrloin do not hoard what they thieve, and instead toss them away once sufficiently far from their owners. Though they normally stand on four legs, they are also facultative bipeds, much to the surprise of many of their foes. When threatened, Purrloin will act cutely in hopes of tricking their opponent into letting their guards down. Then, they will unsheathe their sharp claws and attack viciously with quick, successive slashes. Despite their negative reputation, however, many people still find Purrloin adorable, making them common pets in many cities.

160

Purrloin / Liepard 

Purrloin

Dark - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 5

Skills: -

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Limber (You are immune to being Paralyzed.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)

Fake Out - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 2d6. Fake Out has Priority. Fake Out can only be used as your first action during an encounter. On hit, the target is Stunned.

Scratch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Liepard prefer to stay away from humans by living in flat grasslands and savannas. They are known for their beautiful fur, graceful movements, and stealthy hunting. They will always approach prey from behind; their paws are padded with special fur that silences their footsteps. Once Liepard draw close enough, they will use their powerful hind legs to pounce on victims, who often never even see them coming. These Pokťmon are nocturnal and have keen eyesight even in the dark to help them see small prey. The spots on their bodies break up their outlines in shady patches of grass, further disguising them. Liepard are adept at climbing trees, spending most of their days resting lazily on branches.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Carnivore, Habitat - Jungles / Savannas

Evolution: Purrloin

Liepard

Proficiencies: Dark / Fangs / Slashing / Tricky

Pursuit - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d6. Pursuit deals +6 damage to a target if they ended their turn further away from you during the start of their turn.
Liepard
Dark - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5 Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 10 Skills: Stealth (can make stealth skill checks) Passives: Growl, Hone Claws (+2 Attack), Nasty Plot (+1 Special Attack), Limber, Prankster (Your attacks that do not deal damage on hit have Priority.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +5, Effect +5) Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit. Taunt - Ranged(20ft) Dark Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target may only use attacks that target you or your allies for 1 min.

Night Slash - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Night Slash is a critical hit.

161

Qwilfish (Dark Waters) / Overqwil 

Qwilfish (Dark Waters)

Dark / Poison - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Inflatable (can expand), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Intimidate (+1 Defense), Poison Point (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Poison the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Poison Sting - Melee Poison Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

Spikes - Ranged(20ft burst) Ground Effect: 3/day. Place the Spikes Hazard in the area surrounding you. Spikes Hazard has the following ability: When a foe moves through Spikes Hazard during their turn and are on the ground, they lose 1/6th of their Max HP. This Hazard disappears after 2 mins.

Water Pulse - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Overqwil

Dark / Poison - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Flopper, Gilled, Inflatable, Swimmer

Passives: Intimidate, Poison Point, Swift Swim (While in Raining weather or in water, your Speed is +2.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)
Pin Missile - Ranged(10ft) Bug Attack: At-Will 1d4. Pin Missile has -2 during Accuracy Check. Pin Missile is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Dark Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dark Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

In cold, darkened waters, resources are scarcer. Scientists believe that the region's harsher climate forced these Qwilfish to become more aggressive than their relatives in order to survive. Rather than inflating themselves for protection, they instead spray venom from the tips of their barbs, jetting it through the water in streams. In addition to being noxious, this venom numbs upon contact and can even paralyze nerves if left untreated. Qwilfish are shorttempered and will consider any foreign entity that approaches them to be a threat. Fishermen historically were at odds with these Pokťmon; there are many recorded accounts of fishing boats returning from the sea with full hauls, only to have them spoiled by a Qwilfish spraying venom all over the catches. Nets were also commonly torn to shreds by their spiky exteriors. Their relationships with fishermen weren't strictly detrimental, however. Qwilfish venom, after being diluted with seawater, was also used as an anesthetic for emergency medical treatments on ships.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 2, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Ocean

Evolution: Qwilfish (Dark Waters)

Overqwil

Poison Jab - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

Proficiencies: Poison / Water / Elemental Attack I / Piscian / Prickly

Evolution Shift compatible with Qwilfish (717)

162

These unwelcoming Pokťmon are detested by almost anyone who interacts with the sea. Known as sea fiends, Overqwil are irritable at best and frequently bully other Pokťmon away wherever they swim. In addition to essentially being floating balls of spikes that pierce anything that gets too close, Overqwil venom is even is virulent and can leave adult swimmers completely paralyzed within seconds. To make matters worse, though they cannot inflate or launch their spikes, they can spray venom from their spines and jet it through the water. Though it is not nearly as effective upon surface contact, it is quickly taken in by gill-breathing Pokťmon. When two Overqwil meet, it is a nasty sight; the ensuing battle leaves the surrounding sea filled with venom, rendered uninhabitable until it dissipates.

When Rattata arrived on some islands, and they had no natural predators; their populations skyrocket, devastating local endemic flora and agricultural crops. These Rattata are nocturnal and urban in habitat. These Pokťmon are troublesome household pests, gnawing entrances into homes at night. Their whiskers help them locate fresh food, which they bring back to their nests for Raticate. These Rattata actually will actively avoid spoiled meals, unlike their relatives. This is because of their hierarchical social structure; while other Rattata forage for themselves, these Rattata must please their boss Raticate and select food accordingly. More practical shoppers have noticed that this makes them excellent at discerning the freshest produce at the market.

163

Rattata / Raticate (Island) 

Rattata (Island)

Dark / Normal - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 18 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Stealth

Passives: Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Hustle (Your attacks against foes have -2 Accuracy. After the first time you miss an attack during an encounter, the -2 Accuracy penalty is removed and you gain +4 Attack until the end of the encounter.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +1, Effect +4)

Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Pursuit - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d6. Pursuit deals +6 damage to a target if they ended their turn further away from you during the start of their turn.

Raticate (Island)

Dark / Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Stealth, Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Focus Energy, Scary Face (+2 Speed), Tail Whip, Thick Fat (You take -4 damage from Fire-type attacks and Icetype attacks.)

Island-variety Raticate are pudgier than their counterparts. This is because their altered lifestyles can afford them more calories with less energy expenditure. These Raticate will exert control over a group of Rattata that it will send out to search for food. Since these Pokťmon are primarily urban, they can find calorie-dense foods much more easily; additionally, since these bosses rarely leave their nests, they do not have to burn much energy on hunting or moving. Raticate can afford to be very picky about their food because they obtain so much of it, stockpiling the bulk of what their underlings bring in their nests. They have highly developed taste buds that help them discern the freshest items. Ironically, this makes them useful to restaurant chefs, who often employ them in places where their cousins would be seen as pests. Raticate are fiercely territorial against others of their kind, engaging in "turf wars" where Rattata groups fight one another for control. Only when all of its underlings have fallen will a Raticate emerge to fight on its own. Their webbed feet. a trait they share with their mainland relatives, enable them to swim from island to island with surprising ease.

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +5)
Hyper Fang - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Super Fang - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day. On hit, the target's current HP is halved.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Fields / Plains / Savannas / Urban

Evolution: Rattata

Raticate

Proficiencies: Dark / Poison / Fangs / Elemental Attacks I

Evolution Shift compatible with Rattata family (480)
164

Scraggy / Scrafty 

Scraggy

Dark / Fighting - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 4

Skills: -

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Shed Skin (After acting, you may roll 1d4. On 4, you are cured of any afflictions.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Headbutt - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Low Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d10. Low Kick can only target heavier targets.
Payback - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. If you were attacked by the target this round, use 3d12 for damage instead.

Scraggy live in small gangs of up to a dozen members. They prowl around arid habitats in search of scarce food and water. Their most notable feature is the baggy skin around their waists; as Scraggy grow, they periodically shed their skins, as many other reptilian Pokťmon do. Scraggy, however, do not discard their old skins. Instead, they allow them to hang around their waists. The intense heat of the desert sun dries the skins so that they are elastic, leatherlike, and surprisingly resilient. When threatened, Scraggy will pull their skins up over their heads to protect themselves. Scraggy with baggier skin garner more respect amongst their peers. It is thought that Scraggy evolve once their skin has been stretched to its maximum limit. Though often seen playing with their fellow gang members in the wild, Scraggy can be very aggressive towards strangers. They will stare down foes that make eye contact with them, following by charging headfirst. Violent fights can break out when two Scraggy gangs come across each other. Scraggy are very proud of their tough skulls. They will butt heads with their allies to test their strength. Their heads are also very heavy, however, making them prone to tripping.

Scrafty

Dark / Fighting - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 13 Special Defense: 12

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 5

Skills: -

Passives: Intimidate (+1 Defense), Moxie (+1 Attack), Scary Face (+2 Speed), Shed Skin

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)
Swagger - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.
Brick Break - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. Destroy any Walls within 5 ft. You may target Walls with Brick Break without needing to roll Accuracy Check or damage.
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Caves / Forests / Mountains

Evolution: Scraggy

Scrafty

Proficiencies: Dark / Fighting / Bruiser / Draconian

165

Scrafty form gangs with others of their kind to prowl

Weavile are vicious and ruthless; they prowl around

around deserts. They are highly territorial, especially

cold forests and mountains in small packs of four or five

against other Scrafty gangs. Scrafty with the largest crests members. They are devious and intelligent hunters, capa-

are the leaders of their gangs. When two gangs come

ble of devising and executing complex plans with their al-

across one another, the two leaders will attempt to intimi- lies to take down foes much larger than themselves; they

date each other by spitting and showing off their crests. If have even been recording hunting Pokťmon over thirty

the leader with the smaller crest does not defer to the oth- times their size. They never bicker over splitting catches. To

er, the two gangs will brawl viciously. Scrafty fight with pow- communicate, Weavile scratch markings into the frost cov-

erful kicks strong enough to shatter rock, though they ap- ering trees and boulders, signaling when, where, and how

pear deceivingly uninterested while brawling. As they kick, to attack. They also use these scratches to mark the bound-

they pull their baggy skins over themselves to shield their bodies from harm; they can also cover their heads with skin hoods. Though these Pokťmon are notorious for their aggressiveness and territoriality, recent studies have revealed that Scrafty are in fact very protective of their fellow gang members, as well as of their family and of their territory.

aries of their domains. Weavile will work together to surround foes from all sides before closing in on their quarries. One Weavile may surprise the intended prey and pin it down to expose a vulnerable area while the others then strike in unison. Their main assets are their stunning agility and their razor-sharp claws, which are cold enough to inflict frostbite with their scratches. Weavile also have excel-

They will share food and water with injured allies, for exam- lent vision, letting them see even in strong blizzards. In bat-

ple, and will deeply mourn the losses of comrades that

tle, one of their claws may occasionally break off. These

have fallen in battle.

claws will grow back in time, though it may take up to a

month to do so.

166

Sneasel / Weavile 

Sneasel
Dark / Ice - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 8
Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 12 Special Attack: 4
Skills: Freezer (can create ice), Stealth (can make stealth skill checks)
Passives: Hone Claws (+2 Attack), Inner Focus (You are immune to being Stunned.), Keen Eye (Your accuracy checks cannot be negatively affected by foes.)
Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +2, Effect +6)
Taunt - Ranged(20ft) Dark Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target may only use attacks that target you or your allies for 1 min.
Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.
Metal Claw - Melee Steel Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.

Sneasel are sly Pokťmon that live in cold areas. Their hands and feet are padded with soft fur that silences their footsteps. They retract their claws while stalking prey to ensure they aren't heard. They hunt in pairs for their favorite food: Pokťmon eggs. First, one Sneasel will scare off the parents guarding the nests by silently approaching and then jumping out, extending its claws to scare them away. Then, the second will climb up the tree by digging its sharp claws into the bark, stealthily taking the eggs while the parents are startled. Though cooperative when hunting, pairs are known to engage in disputes when it comes to sharing the haul. Sneasel are also known to occasionally scavenge, ripping pieces of flesh from the meals of another Pokťmon. They are nocturnal, preferring to hunt in the cover of night. Sneasel are also cunning; they are known to closely observe enemies from the darkness to pinpoint their most vulnerable points before leaping out and digging their claws into those areas. Sneasel in pairs may gang up on single foes to overpower them, clawing them into submission.

Weavile
Dark / Ice - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 9
Speed: 13 (65 ft.) Attack: 14 Special Attack: 5
Skills: Freezer, Stealth
Passives: Hone Claws, Inner Focus, Pickpocket (When you are hit by a melee attack, you steal the offender's held item, if any.) Pressure (If you are hit by a 3/day attack, the attacker can't use that attack for the remainder of the day)
Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +2, Effect +6)
Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.
Night Slash - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Night Slash is a critical hit.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Caves / Forests / Mountains / Tundra

Dark Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dark Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Evolution: Sneasel

Weavile

Proficiencies: Dark / Ice / Slashing / Tricky

Evolution Shift compatible with Sneasel (Badlands) family (264)
167

Vullaby/ Mandibuzz 

Vullaby

Dark / Flying - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Guster (can produce wind)

Passives: Big Pecks (Your Defense cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)

Gust - Ranged(20ft) Flying Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. If the target is at least 20 ft off the ground airborne, Gust deals +1d20 damage.

Fury Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Fury Attack has -2 during Accuracy Check. Fury Attack is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Flatter - Ranged(10ft) Dark Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Special Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.

Mandibuzz

Dark / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 66 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Flight (can fly), Guster

Passives: Tailwind (+2 Speed), Big Pecks, Overcoat (You are immune to damage from weather.), Weak Armor (When you are hit by a melee attack, your Defense is -3 and your Speed is +3 for 10 mins.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +5)

Bone Rush - Melee Ground Attack: At-Will 1d4. Bone Rush has -2 during Accuracy Check. Bone Rush is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Vullaby live in harsh badlands that few other Pokťmon can be found in. They cannot fly because their wings are small and underdeveloped. Consequently, they have to resort to other methods of protection; their mothers will gather the bones of deceased Pokťmon for them to use as protection, using larger ones as they grow. Siblings will squabble with one another for comfy bones. Partially due to their voracious appetites, Vullaby undergo multiple growth spurts and require new bones each time, with the old ones being passed on to younger chicks. The bones also protect their rears, as these Pokťmon are clumsy and often fall while waddling around. However, they are also heavy, so when Vullaby near evolution and prepare to fly, they will discard their skulls. Vullaby are not picky eaters and will consume whatever their mothers bring back to them or wanders close enough for them to chase. Vullaby almost always try to pursue prey weaker than themselves, sometimes purely for enjoyment; they quickly will give up chase, however. They do not enjoy walking much, so they will only finish hunting down prey when food is scarce. Despite this, they can often be seen hopping excitedly as they try in vain to take flight. Sometimes, a Vullaby may follow its mother out to scavenge or hunt; this is where it learns to discern weakened prey and salvage bones for later use.

Air Slash - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. Air Slash has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Dark Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dark Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Biology: Egg Group - Flying, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Badlands / Plains

Evolution: Vullaby

Mandibuzz

Proficiencies: Dark / Flying / Avian / Winged

168

Mandibuzz are both scavengers and hunters, often seen Zorua are wily Pokťmon that are skilled in the art of illu-

circling the skies in desolate badlands. Their use their keen sion. They can disguise themselves as nearly anything near

senses of sight and smell to locate weakened or sick prey. their size to hide from danger. Zorua are capable of veiling

When they find food, they will circle around their victims themselves as young humans and Pokťmon; unlike Zoro-

before diving in. Mandibuzz then carry their prey back to ark, however, their tails will remain no matter what guise

their nests. These Pokťmon have an affinity for bones,

they take up. Zorua also uses their abilities to trick others

which they collect to decorate their own bodies as well as and steal their food. They disguise themselves as dupli-

build their meticulously-crafted nests--ominous-looking cates of their targets, so that even if they are caught, their

piles of bones in badlands are almost invariably abandoned victims will be too stunned to react. Zorua also seem to

Mandibuzz nests. They will root through carcasses already enjoy tricking others purely for fun. They often will assume

picked clean of flesh by other scavengers for desirable

the forms of human children, pickpocketing passerby while

bones. Mandibuzz have abnormally strong stomach acids feigning innocence if caught. Their illusions can be broken

that allow them to consume rotting flesh without becoming if they are startled or injured while disguised. Unlike the

ill. The sight of a Mandibuzz circling overhead in a barren transforming Pokťmon Ditto, however, Zorua do not alter

wasteland is a harrowing symbol for tired travelers, indicat- their bodies when disguising themselves; instead, they

ing that their end may be near. Despite their opportunistic simply create illusions to fool onlookers. This means that

natures, these Pokťmon are quite maternal and will adopt Zorua do not assume the powers of their disguises. Zorua

orphaned Vullaby from other mothers and raise them as disguised as humans, for example, are unable to talk intelli-

their own.

gibly. Zorua are quite cowardly when exposed, and thus

always remain disguised except when around friends.

169

Zorua / Zoroark 

Zorua

Dark - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Stealth (can make stealth skill checks)

Passives: Illusion (As a free action, you may change your appearance to look like any Pokťmon you have interacted with within the past hour. You may not appear as a Pokťmon more than twice your size and the illusion is dropped when you are hit by an attack.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +3) Scratch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Pursuit - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d6. Pursuit deals +6 damage to a target if they ended their turn further away from you during the start of their turn. Taunt - Ranged(20ft) Dark Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target may only use attacks that target you or your allies for 1 min.
Zoroark
Dark - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight) Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6 Speed: 13 (65 ft.) Attack: 13 Special Attack: 14 Skills: Stealth Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Fake Tears (+2 Special Attack), Hone Claws (+2 Attack), Illusion
Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +7, Effect +6)

Zoroark have mastered the art of illusion. Their illusions are highly realistic; they can even make people believe that they have been physically hit by attacks that had in fact been illusory. Some Zoroark can produce adjacent illusions of scenery to protect their lairs with false scenery that conceal their entrances, luring potential intruders away without their knowledge. They normally live in packs, the members of which are highly protective of one another. They are especially defensive of their young, which they will often carry within their thick manes. Zoroark are very intelligent Pokťmon; some have even learned human languages in order to produce more convincing human disguises. The only way to break a Zoroark illusion without its consent is to harm the Zoroark itself, a task that can feel impossible for the person fooled by it.

Night Daze - Ranged(10ft) Dark Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.
Night Slash - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Night Slash is a critical hit.
Punishment - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 2d10. Punishment deals an additional 1d10 damage for each Stat Passive the target has.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Urban Abandoned / Woodlands

Evolution: Zorua

Zoroark

Proficiencies: Dark / Normal Block / Tricky

Evolution Shift compatible with Zorua (Icy Mountain) family (500)
170

Absol live deep in mountain ranges, rarely coming into contact with humans. The blade-like horns on their heads are said to have mystical powers; it is purported that Absol use their horns to detect minute changes in the land, water, and atmosphere and learn about impending catastrophes before they happen. Being benevolent Pokťmon, they will seek to warn nearby villages and towns of disasters. In older times, people used to believe seeing Absol brought disasters, not warned of them. They always appeared before earthquakes, floods, storms, and so on, and were seen as bad omens. Absol have long life spans, with individuals said to regularly live over a century.

Absol 

Dark - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 15

Special Attack: 8

Skills: -
Passives: Super Luck (Attacks are critical hits on natural 1820), Swords Dance (+2 Attack), Justified (When a foe hits you with a Dark-type attack, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.), Pressure (If you are hit by a 3/day attack, the attacker can't use that attack for the remainder of the day.)

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +4, Effect +4)

Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.

Night Slash - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Night Slash is a critical hit.

Psycho Cut - Ranged(20ft) Psychic Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Psycho Cut is a critical hit.

Sableye live deep within caverns, particularly near veins of precious stones. Because of this, their presence is often used as an indicator of valuable jewels. However, mining in Sableye territory is highly unadvised; Sableye are natural tricksters that enjoy playing pranks on lost spelunkers by destroying equipment or altering paths. They rarely attack directly unless their primary food source--jewels--is threatened. Sableye dig holes in cave walls and floors in search of gems and ore, which they crush with their razorsharp teeth before eating. Minerals in the ore they eat crystallize on the surface of their bodies, forming various arrangements of gems that can differ between individuals. Their eyes glitter sinisterly when exposed to bright light, such as the beams from flashlights. Sableye move about very erratically, jittering and convulsing with every step as their heads twitch from side to side. This only adds to their eerie demeanors.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 13 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Mountains
Proficiencies: Dark / Energy Blast / Elemental Attack / Slashing

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 171

Sableye 

Dark / Ghost - Medium (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Stealth (can make stealth skill checks)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Keen Eye (Your accuracy checks cannot be negatively affected by foes.), Prankster (Your attacks that do not deal damage on hit have Priority.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Shadow Sneak - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 2d6. Shadow Sneak has Priority.
Power Gem - Ranged(20ft) Rock Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.
Knock Off - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target drops any held items or weapons.

Biology: Egg Group - Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate - 13 Days, Diet - Terravore, Habitat - Caves
Proficiencies: Dark / Ghost / Rock / Hexwork / Tricky

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 172

173

Axew / Fraxure / Haxorus 

Axew

Dragon - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 3

Skills: -
Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Mold Breaker (Your attacks ignore any passives that would redirect, negate or weaken your attacks.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +1, Effect +3)

Scratch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Assurance - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target was already attacked this round, Assurance deals +1d8 damage.
Dual Chop - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 2d8. Dual Chop is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.

Fraxure

Dragon - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 4

Skills: -

Passives: Leer, Scary Face (+2 Speed), Mold Breaker, Unnerve (Foes within 25ft of you cannot consume food.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)
Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.
Dragon Claw - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 3d10.
Taunt - Ranged(20ft) Dark Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target may only use attacks that target you or your allies for 1 min.

Axew are territorial Pokťmon that tend to live in caves near rivers. Their most distinctive features are the two tusks protruding from either side of their mouths. Axew use these tusks to leave gashes on tree trunks to mark their territories. Initially, these tusks are very brittle and prone to breaking off. However, when an Axew tusk breaks, it will grow back stronger and sturdier than it was before. This gradual strengthening encourages Axew to test their tusks on increasingly hard objects, from wood to stone to even metal. Axew tusks grow back quickly and are primarily used to defend the Pokťmon as well as crack open hard food for them to eat. Young Axew will compete with one another to crack the hardest Berries as displays of strength.

174

Fraxure tusks will not regenerate; if one breaks off in combat, the Fraxure will be rendered handicapped, not only in battle but in simple movement, as the tusks also provides these Pokťmon with balance. For this reason, Fraxure spend much of their time whetting their tusks on river rocks, sharpening them as much as possible to ensure clean slices instead of dull hits. These tusks are capable of slicing up boulders without breaking. Fraxure are fiercely territorial; a fight between two Fraxure over land can be very gruesome, as neither will back down until the other is either maimed or without a tusk. These Pokťmon will become anxious if they are not able to sharpen their tusks; they sometimes will even forgo searching for food in favor of looking for suitable stones to whet their tusks on. A Fraxure carapace is as hard as armor. These Pokťmon prefer tackling opponents with their sturdy bodies while simultaneously goring them with their tusks as their go-to attack.

Haxorus

Dragon - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight) Hit Points: 48 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 7 Speed: 13 (65 ft.) Attack: 18 Special Attack: 6 Skills: Passives: Dragon Dance (+1 Attack, +1 Speed), Swords Dance (+2 Attack), Scary Face, Mold Breaker, Unnerve

Moves (Attack +9, Special Attack +3, Effect +6)

Dragon Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Haxorus tusks are virtually indestructible. They are capable of slicing through steel like butter and are resistant to dulling even after prolonged use. Additionally, these Pokť-

Guillotine - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day. On hit, roll 1d20. On a natural result of 17, 18, 19, or 20, the target is set to 0 HP.

mon are covered with thick, plated armor that shields them Outrage - Melee Dragon Attack: 1/day 5d12. Outrage is a

from most attacks. Haxorus can be very territorial, particu- two-turn move. On each turn, move to the closest charac-

larly towards other Haxorus. They will engage in fights for ter within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's

control of land, though individual Haxorus are rarely

Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your sec-

harmed significantly due to their thick armor. Despite this ond turn you are Confused.

territoriality, Haxorus are very docile, even kind, when it

comes to others that they do not view as threats. These

Pokťmon have been known to cut down trees to help

Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 13

smaller Pokťmon cross fast-moving rivers or slice open

Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Caves / Rivers

hard Berries and nuts for weaker Pokťmon to eat. In battle, Evolution: Axew Haxorus can use a number of physical Dragon-type attacks

Fraxure

Haxorus

to batter foes. Haxorus can also use their two blades to

Proficiencies: Dragon / Bruiser (Haxorus) / Draconian

execute techniques against enemies.

/ Slashing

175

Bagon / Shelgon / Salamence 

Bagon

Dragon - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Rock Head (Your attacks that damage yourself on hit do not damage yourself.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Headbutt - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Shelgon

Dragon - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Firestarter, Sinker (can't swim)

Passives: Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Leer, Rock Head, Sheer Force (Your attacks that have additional effects that affect the target may deal +4 damage, but will not have those additional effects.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Protect - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Protect is used as a Reaction. When you would be hit by a move, use Protect to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack.
Dragon Breath - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: AtWill 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Bagon can be found in caverns or near cliffs, canyons, and other areas with stark differences in elevation. Their favorite pastime is jumping headfirst off of ledges. They are motivated by a deeply instinctive desire to fly, more than they want to sleep or even eat. Because of this, Bagon spend most of their days futilely jumping off of cliffs in attempts to become airborne, only eating and sleeping when their bodies can no longer handle the exhaustion. Their heads have developed helmets as hard as tempered steel that protect them from being injured during their dives. Every few hundred jumps or so, they will take out their anger at not being able to fly on nearby boulders, which they will slowly smash into pebbles with their hard heads. They are very powerful despite their size. In particular, their neck muscles are very well-developed, helping them smash their heads into foes.

176

Shelgon have rigid and sturdy armor that is as hard as iron; most attacks simply bounce right off of it. Their shells are made of a material very similar to bone. Though very tough, their carapaces are also heavy, making them sluggish. They rarely eat, relying on the energy they stored as Bagon prior to evolution. They toughen their own willpower and become hardier through this fasting as they prepare to evolve. Once Shelgon are ready for evolution, their shells simply peel right off as Salamence emerge from within. Shelgon are a very hardy species that can survive in most climates. They are resistant to both extreme cold and heat thanks to their insulating armor. However, they avoid deep water at all costs; their heavy shells render them unable to float and their stubby limbs make it impossible for them to swim.

Salamence

Dragon / Flying - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight) Hit Points: 60 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8 Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 15 Special Attack: 11 Skills: Firestarter, Flight (can fly) Passives: Focus Energy, Moxie (+1 Attack), Scary Face (+2 Speed), Rock Head, Sheer Force

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +5, Effect +6)

Fly - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Fly is a two-turn

move. On the first turn, fly up to 40 ft straight up. On the

Upon evolution, Salamence have shed their shells and second turn, fly up to your movement speed +40 ft, then

achieved their lifelong goal: flight. Naturally, they take great you can roll Fly's Accuracy Check and damage.

advantage of this, spending most of their spare time simply Dragon Claw - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 3d10. soaring about in the air and not landing until they physical-

ly can no longer stay aloft. While flying, Salamence may ex- Zen Headbutt - Melee Psychic Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if

press their joy by spouting flames out of their mouths.

you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is

They are highly territorial, going on tremendous rampages Stunned.

when their territories are challenged. They can easily level

swathes of forest using their viciously sharp claws and broiling flames. They can fly very quickly, but only for short periods of time. Popular culture details that their great desire to fly caused their cells to mutate and their wings to

Biology: Egg Group - Dragon / Monster, Egg Hatch Rate - 20 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Caves / Mountains

Evolution: Bagon

Shelgon

Salamence

sprout. These Pokťmon have become symbols of achieving one's desires: Bagon represent having dreams, Shelgon represent enduring hardships along the way, and Salamence represent finally achieving one's goals.

Proficiencies: Dragon / Flying (Salamence) / Draconian / Elemental Attack EF / Fangs / Slashing / / Stampeding (Salamence) / Winged (Salamence)

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 177

Dratini / Dragonair / Dragonite 

Dratini

Dragon - Medium (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Flight (can fly), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Shed Skin (After acting, you may roll 1d4. On 4, you are cured of any afflictions.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)

Wrap - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 physical damage on its turns.

Thunder Wave - Ranged(20ft) Electric Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Paralyzed.

Twister - Ranged(15ft) Dragon Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Dragonair

Dragon - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Flight, Swimmer

Passives: Leer, Marvel Scale (While afflicted, your Defense is +2.), Shed Skin

Dratini dwell at the bottoms of deep lakes, where they are difficult to find. Young Dratini are rather large for newborns, with some having been reported be as long as six feet. As they age, they grow even larger, shedding their skins periodically. They are vulnerable after shedding, so they will hide behind powerful waterfalls away from their colonies during these times. Their bodies grow at an astounding rate, so they must shed often. While they are primarily aquatic, they can move around on land by slithering or by making short bursts of sustained flights with the wings on their heads.

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)
Dragon Rage - Ranged(5ft) Dragon Special Attack: 3/day 25. Do not add bonuses of any kind to this damage.
Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Slam has -2 during Accuracy Check.
Aqua Tail - Melee Water Attack: 1/day 3d12.

178

Dragonair are always cloaked with mystical, invisible auras that calm those around them. The auras seem to come from the orbs on their bodies. Dragonair have the ability to fly. They do not use this ability often, though, as they prefer staying submerged deep at the bottoms of freshwater lakes. When they do fly, however, the small feather-like ornaments on their head spread out like wings. Whether this is purely aesthetic or an aid them in flight somehow is not yet known. Dragonair shed their skin periodically. According to popular legend, seeing a Dragonair flying overhead at the start of a new year is a sign of good health for the rest of the year.

Dragonite

Dragon / Flying - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 15

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Flight, Swimmer

Dragonite are benevolent and extremely rare Pokťmon sometimes seen flying around seas. They are known to rescue drowning Pokťmon and people from stormy seas, which they can easily weather with their sturdy bodies. Using their antenna, they can sense changes in the weather minutes before they happen and use this sensitivity to plan their flights overseas. Though almost always gentle, Dragonite can go on destructive rampages when angered. They will relentlessly destroy everything around them until they tire and collapse. Luckily, it takes a lot to anger Dragonite, as they are incredibly kind and forgiving. In battle, Dragonite can decimate opponents with the powerful thrashing rampages.

Passives: Dragon Dance (+1 Attack, +1 Speed), Leer, Inner Focus (You are immune to being Stunned.), Marvel Scale, Multiscale (When you are at Max HP, you take ≠4 damage from all attacks.), Shed Skin
Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)
Wing Attack - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d8.
Dragon Rush - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 3d10. Dragon Rush has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Outrage - Melee Dragon Attack: 1/day 5d12. Outrage is a two-turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 20 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Lakes / Oceans

Evolution: Dratini

Dragonair

Dragonite

Proficiencies: Dragon / Flying (Dragonair / Dragonite) / Bruiser (Dragonite) / Draconian (Dragonair / Dragonite) / Elemental Attack (Dragonite) / Normal Block (Dragonite)

179

Dreepy / Drakloak / Dragapult 

Dreepy

Dragon / Ghost - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 18 Defense: 3 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Flight (can fly), Gilled (can breathe underwater)

Passives: Infiltrator (Hindering terrain and Walls do not affect you or your attacks.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)

Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.

Astonish - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Infestation - Ranged(20ft) Bug Special Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, the target is bound in place for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 special damage on its turns.

Drakloak

Dragon / Ghost - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 13 (65 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Flight, Modular (consists of 2 parts), Gilled

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Dragon Dance (+1 Attack, +1 Speed), Clear Body (Your stats cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.), Infiltrator

Dreepy prowl dark habitats that used to be submerged in water in prehistoric times. In solitude, Dreepy are quite feeble creatures that cannot defend themselves. These Pokťmon are rarely found unprotected in the wild, however, as they are invariably accompanied by Drakloak or Dragapult. These evolutions both care for the Dreepy, even using them in combat by launching them at high speeds towards enemies. The Dreepy fortunately find this to be great fun, as they are learning how to orient themselves in flight to achieve maximum speeds. Sometimes, they will leave their caretakers and begin searching for younger Dreepy to take up and raise after they become Drakloak.

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +6)

Lock-On - Ranged(40ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. Lock-On can't miss. Your next attack against the same target will not miss.

Hex - Ranged(15ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target is afflicted, Hex has 5d8 for damage instead.

Dragon Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.

180

Though they may not appear like caretakers on the surface, Drakloak are doting adoptive parents that dedicate themselves to raising the Dreepy on their heads. Drakloak help teach their Dreepy how to fly and hunt, as well as numerous other skills necessary for survival in the wild. They can be seen playing with their Dreepy in the air by soaring at high speeds before launching the Dreepy even further forwards. This maneuver also teaches the Dreepy proper form in flight. In combat, Drakloak will launch their passengers at opponents at high speeds, teaching the Dreepy to fight at the same time. Because Dreepy approaching evolution will leave their Drakloak, these Pokťmon frequently suffer from empty nest syndrome. Somehow, another Dreepy will mysteriously arrive to pair with a Drakloak if it is left alone for a short while.

Dragapult

Dragon / Ghost - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 54 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8
Speed: 17 (85 ft.) Attack: 13 Special Attack: 10
Skills: Flight, Gilled, Modular (consists of 3 parts), Stealth (can make stealth skill checks)
Passives: Agility, Dragon Dance, Clear Body, Cursed Body (When you are hit by a foe's melee attack, disable that attack for 10 mins. Cursed Body can only affect one attack at a time.), Infiltrator

Dragapult are masters when it comes to both stealth

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +5, Effect +8)

and speed. Their ethereal bodies make no sound as they soar through the sky, while their unique head shape produces lift and helps them achieve high speeds. To attack,

Dragon Darts - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Attack: 3/day 2d8. Dragon Darts is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.

these Pokťmon will launch their Dreepy out of their horns Double Edge - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit,

at supersonic speeds. Like Drakloak, Dragapult are very

you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

protective of their Dreepy, though they tend to be less doting and more in favor of tough love. Dragapult expect their Dreepy to practice their abilities on their own time. However, most Dragapult would never leave behind a helpless Dreepy, and such tactics seem to only serve to scare the Dreepy into working hard. When their Dreepy finally evolve, Dragapult seem to show signs of great pride in their adopt-

Phantom Force - Melee Ghost Attack: 1/day 3d12. Phantom Force is a two-turn move. On the first turn, disappear from the battlefield. On the second turn, reappear anywhere within 25 ft of where you vanished, move up to twice your movement speed, and roll Phantom Force's Accuracy Check and damage.

ees--though it is unlikely they will express this directly to

them. A Dragapult will often mysteriously find another pu-

pil Dreepy after another leaves on its own.

Biology: Egg Group - Amorphous / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate

- 20 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Lakes / Ocean Floors

Evolution: Dreepy

Drakloak

Dragapult

Proficiencies: Dragon / Ghost / Water / Draconian / Elemental Attack E

181

Frigibax / Arctibax / Baxcalibur 

Frigibax

Dragon / Ice - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Chilled (always cold), Freezer (can create ice)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Thermal Exchange (You are immune to being Burned. When you are hit by a Fire-type attack, your Attack is +2 for 10 mins.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Icy Wind - Ranged(10ft) Ice Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Arctibax

Dragon / Ice - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Chilled, Freezer

Passives: Leer, Focus Energy, Thermal Exchange

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)

Dragon Breath - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: AtWill 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Ice Fang - Melee Ice Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is randomly either Stunned or Frozen.

Take Down - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.

Frigibax are rarely encountered by travelers, as they primarily live in icy caves and snowy boreal forests. Though reptilian Pokťmon can rarely tolerate the cold, these Pokťmon employ a highly intricate system of thermoregulation that makes them suitable for such environments. Frigibax possess large dorsal fins that absorb heat from the environment, which they use to keep most of their bodies warm. They also have insulated sacs within that are kept much colder than their bodies through the use of a refrigerant compound that flows around the sacs. Frigibax use some of the energy they gather in their fins to circulate this substance and keep the sacs cold while the rest of their bodies remain heated; because they pull energy from the air, these Pokťmon are actually more active in warmer temperatures- as long as the climate remains below freezing, that is. Frigibax exhale air chilled by their thermal sacs to cool their nests and defend themselves from attackers.

182

Arctibax dorsal fins have become more efficient at heat absorption, and their thermal systems are even better able to convert this into energy for cooling their thermal sacs. Arctibax freeze moisture in the surrounding air to form icy armor that protects their faces. In combat, they will also freeze their surfaces of their dorsal fins to form sharp blades. To attack, they use their strong backs and legs to perform front flips and slam down onto their foes like hatchets. Arctibax will often freeze foes solid with their breaths so they have an easier time aiming their finishing blows, as their front flips can be a bit inaccurate otherwise. Because coating their dorsal fins in ice prevents them from absorbing heat efficiently, Arctibax are unable to stay in combat for extended periods of time. When they need to flee, they will create flurries of ice crystals to obscure the vision of foes as they make their escapes.

Baxcalibur

Dragon / Ice - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight) Hit Points: 72 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 16

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Chilled, Freezer, Strength (very strong)

Passives: Leer, Focus Energy, Ice Body (If in Hailing weather, you recover 4 HP after you act and you don't take damage from Hailing weather.), Thermal Exchange

Moves (Attack +8, Special Attack +4, Effect +4)

Glaive Rush - Melee Dragon Attack: 1/day 5d12. Until your

next turn, you take double the damage you would from

Mighty Baxcalibur are rarely sighted in the wild. Their

successful attacks.

large dorsal fins absorb huge quantities of heat from the surrounding air; their mere presence lowers the surrounding ambient temperature as a result. Because of this, their faces and the tips of their fins are always coated in razorsharp ice. In fact, the fins are so efficient at absorbing heat that they can sometimes dispel Fire-type attacks entirely,

Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Icicle Crash - Ranged(15ft) Ice Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

converting their heat into energy to further power up their

attacks. Baxcalibur spew cryogenic air at high speeds from their mouths, which is cold enough to cool even lava. In combat, they will actually use their breaths as propellant to

Biology: Egg Group - Dragon / Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 20 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Tundra

launch themselves backwards at opponents, impaling them Evolution: Frigibax

Arctibax

Baxcalibur

with their sharp fins. Baxcalibur also use this technique to cleave through packed snowbanks and cave walls with ease. Because of their elusiveness, the silhouettes of snowcloaked Baxcalibur are frequently mistaken for cryptids when sighted in the wild.

Proficiencies: Dragon / Ice / Bruiser (Baxcalibur) / Draconian (Arctibax / Baxcalibur) / Stampeding (Baxcalibur) / Slashing (Arctibax / Baxcalibur)

183

Gible / Gabite / Garchomp 

Gible

Dragon / Ground - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Burrow (moves through earth easily), Groundshaper (can manipulate the ground),

Passives: Sand Veil (While in Sandstorming Weather, any foe's attacks made against you have -1 during accuracy check and you don't take damage from Sandstorming weather.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Take Down - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.
Sand Tomb - Ranged(10ft) Ground Attack: 3/day 1d4. On hit, the target is bound in place for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 physical damage on its turns.

Gabite

Dragon / Ground - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Burrow, Groundshaper
Passives: Rough Skin (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, the attacker takes 4 damage.), Sand Veil

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)

Dual Chop - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 2d8. Dual Chop is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.
Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.
Dig - Melee Ground Attack: 3/day 3d10. Dig is a two-turn move. On the first turn, burrow up to 40 ft straight down. On the second turn, burrow up to your movement speed +40 ft, then you can roll Dig's Accuracy Check and damage.

Gible are a hardy species, found in warm, remote areas. They are found in caverns heated by geothermal activity and sunbaked badlands with little rainfall. Gible build nests by digging small holes horizontally into the sides of cave walls. They wait for prey to pass by before instinctually pouncing onto and then biting them with their powerful jaws. Their jaws are spectacularly strong for their sizes; as a consequence of this, however, they will sometimes injure themselves or chip their teeth from the sheer force of their own biting. These injuries rarely bother them, as they have a high threshold for pain. Though solitary, Gible are not territorial; they play-fight with other Gible and will huddle together in cold weather to stay warm. When rubbed one way, their skin feels as smooth as rubber, but when rubbed the other way, it feels as rough as sandpaper. They are not very nimble, as their stubby limbs make them rather clumsy when walking.

184

Gabite are highly territorial, viciously defending their domains against intruders. Gabite are very swift, allowing them to chase prey instead of waiting for their approach. They enjoy collecting sparkly items, particularly gemstones. They will dig into cave walls in search of jewels, hoarding them in large piles in their nests. Gabite nests are constantly targeted by thieves due to the immense value of the jewels they hold. However, their hostility makes infiltrating their nests a very difficult task. They will remain motionless for hours at a time keeping an eye on their hoards. Gabite shed their scales along with their skins periodically as they grow until they are ready to evolve.

Garchomp

Dragon / Ground - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight) Hit Points: 66 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 9 Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 13 Special Attack: 8 Skills: Burrow, Flight (can fly), Groundshaper Passives: Rough Skin, Sand Veil

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +4, Effect +5)

Garchomp are blisteringly fast; as they run, their wings can create blades of wind strong enough to slice down trees. Though they may not seem like it, they are also capable of flight. When they fold in their limbs and extend their wings, Garchomp both look and travel like jet planes. Their scales are fine and all face the same direction. In flight, the scales are oriented in such a way that they reduce drag. When rubbed in the opposite direction, on the other hand, their skin is rough enough to leave minor cuts. Garchomp are very aggressive and territorial, not hesitating to attack intruders. Travelers that must pass through their territory should bring food as a precautionary measure; Garchomp can be calmed by the offerings for short periods of time, possibly long enough for trainers to escape unharmed. Their head growths help them detect heat signatures to hunt down distant prey; they are known to dive into flocks of Flying-type Pokťmon and swallow them whole.

Sandstorm - Rock Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Sandstorming Weather with a 60ft diameter. Anyone who acts within the Sandstorming weather takes 2d4 damage after acting unless they are Rock-type, Ground-type, or Steel-type. This weather disappears after 2 mins.
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Dragon Rush - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 3d10. Dragon Rush has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 20 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Badlands / Caves

Evolution: Gible

Gabite

Garchomp

Proficiencies: Dragon / Ground (Gabite / Garchomp) / Bruiser (Gabite / Garchomp) / Draconian / Elemental Attack F / Fangs / Slashing / Winged (Garchomp)

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 185

Goomy / Sliggoo / Goodra 

Goomy

Dragon - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Amorphous (can change their body into a liquid-like state), Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain)

Passives: Hydration (While in Raining weather, you are cured of any afflictions.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Bubble - Ranged(15ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Sliggoo

Dragon - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Amorphous, Climber

Passives: Hydration, Sap Sipper (You are immune to Grasstype attacks. If you would be hit by a Grass-type attack, your Attack is +2 for 10 mins.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)

Acid Spray - Ranged(20ft) Poison Special Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Dragon Breath - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: AtWill 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Rain Dance - Water Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Raining Weather with a 60ft diameter. Within the Raining weather, Water-type attacks deal an additional 8 damage and Fire-type attacks deal 8 less damage. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

Goomy have no bones, chitin, or other hard tissues within their mostly-aquatic bodies whatsoever, allowing them to contort themselves and squeeze through tight spaces. Goomy are far from defenseless; their gooey bodies are covered in slick films of special mucus that cause many physical attacks to slide off of them harmlessly. It also possesses a moderate paralyzing agent that can stun those that try to grab them. This mucus also helps keep these Pokťmon hydrated outside of wet environments, though it can only keep the Pokťmon protected temporarily; Goomy must spend most of their time resting in damp, shady areas in order to keep their slimy bodies from drying out, as they breathe through their skin. Despite these protections, Goomy are still timid creatures that will hide as soon as their horns sense danger. These horns are very sensitive to changes in air flow and humidity, allowing them to detect others from afar.

Evolution Shift compatible with Goomy family (626)
186

Sliggoo have severely underdeveloped eyes compared to both Goomy and Goodra. Instead of sight, Sliggoo use their four horns to detect both sound and smell; these senses are highly developed to compensate for their lack of vision. To protect themselves, Sliggoo will excrete a sticky yet highly corrosive liquid onto foes. They slurp the dissolved remains of prey, as they are toothless. They seem to have trouble distinguishing friend from food, however. Their humps resemble shells, but in fact hold their coiled digestive tracts as well as their small brains. It is said that they are only able to think of finding food and escaping enemies as they strive towards evolution. As Sliggoo travel, they leave behind trails of foul-tasting, gooey mucus that most predators avoid; it is likely that the disgusting slime keeps them at bay.

Goodra

Dragon - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 16

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Amorphous, Climber

Passives: Gooey (+1 Speed), Tearful Look (+1 Defense, +1 Special Defense), Hydration, Sap Sipper

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)

Goodra are normally found in wet swamps and marshes, as they need to stay moist at all times. However, the slimy mucus covering their bodies, which drips off of them as they travel, can keep them hydrated for long periods of time. Goodra are friendly, though shy and a bit slow-witted. They display their affection by hugging their friends or

Muddy Water - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Water Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, any target's Accuracy Checks are -2 during their next turn.
Dragon Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.

trainers. This leaves their loved ones covered in a sticky,

Power Whip - Melee Grass Attack: 1/day 5d12. Power Whip

unfortunately cloth-staining, slime. They will cry gooey

has -2 during Accuracy Check.

tears when lonely. Despite their amiability, however, Good-

ra can attack powerfully in battle. They use their stretchy

horns to launch devastating punches. They can also coat

their foes in sticky mucus to slow down their movement

and whip them with their strong tails. The combination of Biology: Egg Group - Dragon / Water 3, Egg Hatch Rate - 20

slime and a thick layer of fat beneath their skin allows

Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Marshes / Swamps

Goodra to shake off direct hits easily. Goodra love playing in the rain and will leave their shady habitats to frolic about Evolution: Goomy

Sliggoo

Goodra,

during drizzles.

Proficiencies: Dragon / Water (Sliggoo / Goodra)

/ Grass (Sliggoo)(Melee attacks) / Draconian (Goodra)

/ Elemental Attack (Goodra) / Weather (Goodra)

*Goomy is also capable of evolving into Sliggoo (Iron-rich). A duplicate Goomy entry followed by it's alternate evolution is located with other Steel-type Pokťmon.
187

Jangmo-o / Hakamo-o / Kommo-o 

Jangmo-o

Dragon - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 5

Skills: -

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Soundproof (You are immune to sound-based attacks.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Bide - Ranged(25ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Bide is a three-turn move. On the first and second turns, do nothing. On the third turn, release energy; all characters within range take damage equal to twice the damage you took since the first turn of Bide.

Dragon Tail - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, move the target 40ft away.

Hakamo-o

Dragon / Fighting - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 8

Skills: -

Passives: Scary Face (+2 Speed), Screech (+2 Attack), Work Up (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Soundproof

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +4, Effect +4)
Sky Uppercut - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d10. You may leap up to 60ft upwards to hit a target while using Sky Uppercut.

Jangmo-o live in groups in harsh, barren areas. They often congregate in canyons and badlands far away from human settlements or even other Pokťmon. Jangmo-o train diligently by battling one another; they take their practice very seriously and never miss a chance to further hone their skills. These Pokťmon will never turn their backs to foes and always remain humble about their fighting prowess. Jangmo-o use their hard scales to defend themselves from blows as well as attack enemies. Their scales make harsh, metallic clanging noises as they hit one another. Jangmo-o clang their scales to express emotions both in battle as well as in communication, making their habitats very noisy. Young Jangmo-o will clang scales together to build camaraderie and strength. Travelers will almost inevitably hear Jangmo-o in the wild before spotting them. Jangmo-o scales are not modified reptilian scales, but hardened fur.

Headbutt - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Dragon Claw - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 3d10.

188

Hakamo-o search their barren habitats in search of other living souls to spar with. They will travel quite far in order to find suitable partners. Before fighting, Hakamo-o will perform ritualistic dances in which they clang their scales about wildly, filling their surroundings with sounds of harsh ringing. At the peak of their fervor, they will emit war cries to signal to their opponents that they are ready for battle. Hakamo-o use their sharp scales to deliver slicing punches. These scales also help them deflect away enemy attacks, letting these Pokťmon focus entirely on the offensive. Hakamo-o strike with such passion that they sometimes even tear off their own scales. Luckily, they will grow back almost immediately, sharper and sturdier than ever before. When Hakamo-o come across one another in the wild, they will brandish their bare arms to boast how many scales they have lost fighting ferociously in battle.
The mere clanging of a Kommo-o's scales will strike fear Kommo-o

Dragon / Fighting - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight) Hit Points: 48 Defense: 15 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 14 Special Attack: 10
Skills: -
Passives: Dragon Dance (+1 Attack, +1 Speed), Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Screech (+2 Attack), Overcoat (You are immune to damage from weather.), Soundproof

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)

Clanging Scales - Ranged(10ft burst) Dragon Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -2 for 10 mins.

in the hearts of many, spooking them away. This works in their favor, as Kommo-o detest fighting weak foes. These Pokťmon will shake their tails as they walk to scare away

Outrage - Melee Dragon Attack: 1/day 5d12. Outrage is a two-turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's

other Pokťmon from their paths; those that remain un-

Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your sec-

moving are worthy challengers willing to stand up to their ond turn you are Confused.

might. Kommo-o return to their birthplaces after evolution. They watch Jangmo-o from afar, ensuring that they are safe without interfering with their training. Kommo-o wield dev-

Close Combat - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Defense and Special Defense are -2 for 10 mins.

astating uppercuts that can send foes flying and even blow

away parts of the surrounding landscape. They will also

Biology: Egg Group - Dragon / Monster, Egg Hatch Rate - 20

scrape their scales in battles to unnerve enemies, and jan- Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Badlands / Caves / Moun-

gle them after a victory to proudly announce their triumph. tains

Evolution: Jangmo-o

Hakamo-o

Kommo-o

Proficiencies: Dragon / Fighting / Bruiser / Draconian / Martial

189

Swablu / Altaria 

Swablu

Normal / Flying - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Natural Cure (Whenever returned to a Poke Ball, you are cured of any afflictions.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)

Peck - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Fury Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Fury Attack has -2 during Accuracy Check. Fury Attack is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Disarming Voice - Ranged(10ft) Fairy Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.

Altaria

Dragon / Flying - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Flight

Passives: Cotton Guard (+3 Defense), Dragon Dance (+1 Attack, +1 Speed), Cloud Nine (As a free action you may deplete one use of Defog and use Defog.), Natural Cure

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Swablu have soft wings with cottony feathers. They have a tremendous desire for cleanliness, cleaning anything dirty they see with their wings. Their need to clean is so crippling that they will be unable to sleep until everything visible from their nests is spotless. Once Swablu tidy everything they possibly can, they will wash their wings in clean, flowing streams. Even if their wings aren't dirty, they will still rinse them, almost compulsively, every few hours. Swablu love rain, as it takes much of the pressure of cleaning off of them. However, if their wings become waterlogged, they become unable to fly. Consequently, they will hide under trees with their wings tucked in during storms to keep them dry. After cold winters, Swablu will fly in large flocks into towns and cities, heralding the arrival of spring. They are unafraid of humans and have a curious habit of perching peacefully on people's heads like pillowy hats.

Dragon Breath - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: AtWill 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Biology: Egg Group - Flying / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Fields / Forests

Perish Song - Ranged(40ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. All possible Pokťmon targets including yourself receive 3 Perish Coats. The Coats have the following ability: After acting, destroy one of your Perish Coats. If this is the third Perish Coat you've destroyed this way during this encounter, set your HP to 0.

Evolution: Swablu Altaria Proficiencies: Dragon (Altaria) / Flying / Avian / Winged

Moonblast - Ranged(20ft) Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 190

Cyclizar have been a common partner for mankind for

Altaria fly high up in the sky, resembling cottony clouds. millennia. Cave paintings dating around ten-thousand

They catch updrafts with their buoyant wings to rise effort- years old depict the Pokťmon have been found with hu-

lessly in the sky. They enjoy flying through clouds, blending mans working together. Cyclizar can reach up to 70 mph

in seamlessly into their surroundings. When Altaria roost, when sprinting, making them invaluable for crossing long

they fold their wings inwards and preen their feathers to distances. They inflate their neck sacs and curve in their

clean them. They do this every few hours to keep their

tails when running to improve stability and absorb the im-

wings from growing too heavy with dirt. Altaria are famous pact of sudden jolts. Their relationship with humans is mu-

for their beautiful, melodic singing. They trill with light so- tual; the body heat of a rider helps keep the Cyclizar warm

prano voices as they fly, making listeners feel like they are in chilly weather, and they seem to prefer the companion-

dreaming. When they see loved ones, they will engulf them ship compared to running alone. The scales on their heads

with their pillowy wings and begin to hum. The sensation of are heavily modified for shock impact. Because of this, Cy-

their wings and ethereal voices will often lull recipients into clizar can ram into foes at high speed without suffering any

deep, blissful sleeps. Altaria hate conflict and will try to

damage themselves. Their shock-absorbent tails and neck

avoid it at all costs; however, they can launch intense drag- sacs also can absorb the impact of incoming attacks. In bat-

on fire at foes when threatened.

tle, Cyclizar will frequently stand on two legs in order to

take advantage of this, using these areas to block enemy

blows.

191

Cyclizar 

Druddigon 

Dragon / Normal - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)
Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 7
Speed: 14 (70 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 9
Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain)
Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Shift Gear (+1 Attack, +2 Speed), Regenerator (When returned to a Poke Ball, you recover to Max HP after being stored for 1 hour.), Shed Skin (After acting, you may roll 1d4. On 4, you are cured of any afflictions.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +4, Effect +7)
Shed Tail - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Shed Tail is used as a Reaction. If you would be hit by an attack that would deal more than 1/3rd of your Max HP in damage, use Shed Tail to instead ignore the damage and effects of the attack, but also lose HP equal to 1/3rd of your Max HP. Then, move up to 40 ft.
Dragon Rush - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 3d10. Dragon Rush has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Breaking Swipe - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Attack is -1 for 10 mins.
Biology: Egg Group - Field / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Deserts / Grasslands
Proficiencies: Dragon / Fangs / Elemental Attack

Dragon - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 14

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Strength (very strong)

Passives: Hone Claws (+2 Attack), Scary Face (+2 Speed), Mold Breaker (Your attacks ignore any passives that would redirect, negate or weaken your attacks.), Rough Skin (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, the attacker takes 4 damage.), Sheer Force (Your attacks that have additional effects that affect the target may deal +4 damage, but will not have those additional effects.)

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Dragon Claw - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Superpower - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Attack and Defense is -2 for 10 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Dragon / Monster, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Caves
Proficiencies: Dragon / Rock / Draconian / Bruiser / Fangs / Stampeding

192

Druddigon are ectothermic Pokťmon that spend most of their time underground. These Pokťmon build their lairs in the abandoned tunnels of other burrowing Pokťmon, darting through complex networks of caves and burrows with surprising speed. They use their sharp claws to hunt prey and rely on their rough, rocky skin to protect themselves from intruders. Druddigon will lie patiently in waiting for hapless prey to wander into their lairs. Then, they will charge headfirst through their narrow tunnels to take their victims down. Because they are unable to regulate their own body temperatures, Druddigon must periodically sunbathe in order to regain heat. Their wings, with their broad surface area and ability to lay nearly flat against the backs of these creatures, are specially adapted to maximize the amount of heat absorbed from sunlight. If Druddigon are unable to stay sufficiently warm, their muscles will begin to stiffen and become as hard as stone, rendering them unable to move. For this reason, Druddigon will dig holes periodically into the ceilings of their tunnels to allow for easy access to sunlight.

Tatsugiri 

Dragon / Water - Tiny (Size), Lightweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 13

Skills: Gilled (can breathe underwater), Intelligence (very smart)Swimmer (can swim), Sushimorph (Tatsugiri has multiple forms that it cannot change between, looking one of three ways: Curly form is orange, with a darker orange on its back; Droopy form is pink with a white belly; and Stretchy form is entirely yellow.)

Passives: Harden (+1 Defense), Nasty Plot (+1 Special Attack), Commander (When adjacent to an allied Dondozo, Tatsugiri can go into Dondozo's mouth as a free action. While inside the allied Dondozo's mouth, Tatsugiri cannot act and its Skills and Passives cannot be used, but the allied Dondozo has +2 to its Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed. Additionally, Tatsugiri cannot be targeted or hit by any attacks, is unaffected by the effects of any moves, and allows the allied Dondozo to use any of Tatsugiri's moves.), Storm Drain (Any foe's ranged Water-type attacks within 25ft or any adjacent foe's Water-type attacks are negated and drawn to you. Your Special Attack is +2 until the end of your next turn whenever you negate a Water-type attack.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +6, Effect +4)

Muddy Water - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Water Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, any target's Accuracy Checks are -2 during their next turn.

Dragon Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Taunt - Ranged(20ft) Dark Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target

Tiny Tatsugiri are clever little Pokťmon, said to be one may only use attacks that target you or your allies for 1

of the most intelligent Dragon-type species. Working with min.

giant Dondozo, they play dead to bait bird and fish Pokť-

mon into approaching. Then, they command their Dondozo

to strike; if successful the two partners share the meal.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 2, Egg Hatch Rate - 13 Days,

Tatsugiri come in three forms; Curly, Droopy, and Stretchy. Diet - Carnivore, Habitat - Lakes / Rivers

Each mimic the preferred prey of different species, with

their names aptly describing their physical characteristics. Proficiencies: Dragon / Water

The forms also favor different tactics best suited to tricking

their intended targets. Though very smart, Tatsugiri are

largely defenseless when outside the mouths of Dondozo.

They can inflate their throat sacs to appear larger and dis-

guise themselves, but otherwise are sitting ducks for many

predators. Because they are adapted to look conspicuously

like prey, lone Tatsugiri are unlikely to survive long if they

cannot find a Dondozo partner to work with.

193

Elekid / Electabuzz / Electivire 

Elekid

Electric - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Static (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Paralyze the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +5)

Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.

Thunder Shock - Ranged(20ft) Electric Special Attack: AtWill 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Low Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d10. Low Kick can only target heavier targets.

Electabuzz

Electric - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Zapper

Passives: Leer, Static, Vital Spirit (You are immune to being put to Sleep.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)
Swift - Ranged(20ft) Normal Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.
Thunder Wave - Ranged(20ft) Electric Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Paralyzed.
Thunder Punch - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Elekid love to play outside in thunderstorms. They wind their arms to build up charge; however, because they cannot hold much electricity at once, most of the built-up power is dissipated immediately. This is done by the two prongs on their heads. As Elekid spin their arms, the area between their prongs will glow a light neon blue, transferring excess charge to the surrounding air. Elekid also tire easily and will stop to rest between wind-ups. If any part of their bodies touch metal, all of their electricity will discharge, forcing them to wind arms again. Elekid have a weak spot right between their prongs. However, a weak but potentially painful electric current runs between them, deterring attackers from striking this area. Even when resting, this spot remains charged, warding off foes who may otherwise see tired Elekid as easy targets. Elekid can quickly discharge what little electricity they can store in short, concentrated bursts to attack, but must recharge after each release. These Pokťmon seem to cheer up when they hear the sound of a crack of thunder; this even applies when the sound is merely a recording rather than the real thing.

194

Electabuzz are most often found near power plants, feeding on generated electricity. Workers there must maintain their populations, as left unchecked, they can easily consume all of the power and cause blackouts. They may occasionally wander into towns searching for food. This can also cause problems, as they will consume electricity directly from homes. In the wild, they will compete for spots likely to be struck by lightning during storms. Electabuzz communicate by touching each other and transferring currents. Standing near an Electabuzz will make one's hairs stand on end from static electricity.

Electivire

Electivire tend to be short-tempered, aggressive Pokťmon. They also often act brashly without consequences; they are known to charge headfirst into the attacks of foes while attempting to land blows of their own. Electivire fry opponents by touching their two tails to them; doing so completes the circuit between the tails, causing volts of electricity to surge through their foes. They can also grab their own tails to charge up their fists and deliver electrifying punches. As they attack, blue sparks may be seen sparking through their two horns. When excited, Electivire will pound their chests, letting loose showers of sparks and thundering roars.

Electric - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)
Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 9
Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 14 Special Attack: 10
Skills: Zapper
Passives: Screech (+2 Attack), Motor Drive (Any Electrictype attack that hits you is negated and your speed is +1 for 10 mins. This can stack.), Static, Vital Spirit
Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)
Thunderbolt - Ranged(30ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Thunder - Ranged(30ft, 5ft blast) Electric Special Attack: 1/ day 5d12. Thunder has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Raining. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the targets are Paralyzed.
Giga Impact - Melee(10ft burst) Normal Attack: 1/day 5d20. Giga Impact has a recharge turn and -2 during Accuracy Check.

Biology: Egg Group - Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate - 13 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Fields / Urban Plants

Evolution: Elekid

Electabuzz

Electivire

Proficiencies: Electric / Bruiser (Electabuzz / Electivire) / Punches / Stampeding (Electabuzz / Electivire)

195

Magnemite/ Magneton / Magnezone 

Magnemite

Electric / Steel - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 18 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Flight (can fly), Magnetic (controls magnetic fields), Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Sturdy (If you would be brought from Max HP to 0 or below, you are instead brought to 1 HP.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +5, Effect +2)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Thunder Shock - Ranged(20ft) Electric Special Attack: AtWill 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Magnet Pull - Ranged(10ft) Electric Effect: 3/day. Magnet Pull can't miss. If used on a Steel type, the target is bound to you.

Magneton

Electric / Steel - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 12

Skills: Flight, Magnetic, Modular (consists of 3 parts), Zapper

Passives: Screech (+2 Attack), Sturdy

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +6, Effect +3)
Tri Attack - Ranged(20ft) Normal Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is randomly either Paralyzed, Burned, or Frozen.

Though Magnemite look like artificial beings, they have been around for well over 1,000 years. Magnemite float using electromagnetic energy, which they generate by spinning the units on their sides; the faster they rotate, the more energy they generate. Touching them as they spin can give a nasty shock. They cannot float without this spinning--if somehow drained of their electrical energy, they will fall straight to the ground. Magnemite tend to ignore humans, but are attracted to electronic devices because they feed on electricity. They often congregate around trainers using a Pokťdex or other devices, potentially causing them to malfunction. They also may cling to power lines and towers in urban areas. Magnemite attacks on power plants have become more frequent in the last fifty years, possibly because an increase in buried power-lines have forced them to find more exposed electrical sources.

Thunder Wave - Ranged(20ft) Electric Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Paralyzed.

Light Screen - Ranged(30ft) Psychic Effect: 3/day. Place 40ft of contiguous Light Screen Wall. Light Screen Wall is see through, 12 ft tall, and has the following ability: Special Attacks that target through this wall deal 10 less damage. This Wall disappears after 2 mins.

196

Magnemite duplicate themselves twice upon evolution into Magneton. Magneton generate radio waves that can raise the heat the surrounding air, dry all surrounding moisture, and cause earaches in those nearby. They seem to appear more frequently when there are more sunspots on the sun. Magneton can irreparably damage electronics simply by being near them. For that reason, many cities near their habitats will issue warnings or sound alarms when swarms of them approach. They will also congregate in areas where lighting is about to strike in hopes of being hit.

Magnezone

Electric / Steel - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 13

Magnezone fuses its semi-separate bodies into one super magnetized being. Their three magnetic apparatuses generate their own magnetic fields, which Magnezone can harness in attacks. Sometimes, when two Magnezone come together, their magnetism will be so strong that neither will be able to move; it takes an external force to separate the two. Magnezone can be territorial; they prefer to use magnetism to repel foes rather than attack them outright. Their magnetic forces are strong enough to lift others while they hold onto metal. Magnezone receive and transmit unknown signals with their antennae, however; they also emit radar signals from these antennae to monitor their territory, honing in and blasting intruders with beams of energy.

Skills: Flight, Magnetic, Zapper
Passives: Screech, Analytic (When attacking a foe who has already acted this round, deal +4 damage.), Sturdy
Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +6, Effect +3)
Flash Cannon - Ranged(20ft) Steel Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Lock-On - Ranged(40ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. Lock-On can't miss. Your next attack against the same target will not miss.
Zap Cannon - Ranged(30ft) Electric Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Zap Cannon has ≠5 during Accuracy Check. On hit the target is Paralyzed.

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Ergovore, Habitat - Mountains / Urban Plants

Evolution: Magnemite

Magneton

Thunder Stone Magnezone

Proficiencies: Electric / Steel / Magnetism

197

Mareep / Flaaffy / Ampharos 

Mareep

Electric - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Static (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Paralyze the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Thunder Wave - Ranged(20ft) Electric Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Paralyzed.
Thunder Shock - Ranged(20ft) Electric Special Attack: AtWill 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Flaaffy

Electric - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Zapper

Passives: Cotton Guard (+3 Defense), Cotton Spore (+2 Speed), Static

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)

Charge - Self Electric Effect: At-Will. Your next Electric attack will deal +2d8 damage. Until then, your Special Defense is +1. This effect wears off after one min.

Take Down - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.

Electro Ball - Ranged(15ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. Electro Ball can only be used against targets slower than you.

Mareep are a common sight on farms, raised for their soft, fluffy wool. Their wool is used to make various different articles of clothing, though it must first be treated to reduce its static-generating properties. Their coats grow continuously, but are shed periodically. If sheared, this wool can grow back within a week. Their fur stores pockets of air that insulate them, keeping Mareep warm during colder months and cool during hotter ones. As they wander about, their wool, which generates static very easily, rubs together and begins storing electricity. Their coats will double in size once fully charged. Because touching their wool in this state would lead to a nasty shock, it is necessary for ranch hands to don rubber gloves while shearing or otherwise handling flocks of Mareep. The small orbs at the end of their tails will glow more brightly depending on how much static electricity they have charged up in their wool.

198

Flaaffy have sections of skin in which wool no longer grows. Their skin, which is bare in these areas, feels like rubber and is nonconductive. This adaptation developed to prevent these Pokťmon from harming themselves with their own electricity. Flaaffy will also begin to grow bald in patches where static generation is abnormally high. To make up for the smaller quantities of wool on their bodies, Flaaffy wool is much higher in quality and can store more electricity. Flaaffy can fire strands of their wool at opponents to electrocute them. They produce static by rubbing their wool together. When they are fully charged, the bulbs at the end of their tails will glow brightly.

Ampharos

Electric - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 12

Skills: Zapper

Passives: Cotton Guard, Cotton Spore, Plus (If at least one ally has Plus or Minus within 10ft of you, you have +3 Special Attack.), Static

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +6, Effect +4)

Ampharos completely forgo the wool of their preevolutions, instead generating electricity completely on their own. Their most famous features are the bulbs on their tails. When lit, the light they emit is so bright that it

Thunder Punch - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

can be seen from miles away. One can tell the state of Am- Confuse Ray - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. On hit, the

pharos health by the strength of their tail light. The brighter target becomes Confused.

the light, the healthier the individual. On the other hand. flickering, dimly glowing lights are signals of sickness or

Power Gem - Ranged(20ft) Rock Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.

exhaustion. In the wild, these Pokťmon usually keep their

tails unlit to avoid detection from enemies.

Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10

Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Fields

Evolution: Mareep

Flaaffy

Ampharos

Proficiencies: Electric / Cutesy / Draconian (Ampharos) / Energy Blast (Ampharos)

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 199

Pawmi / Pawmo / Pawmot 

Pawmi

Electric - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 3 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Static (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Paralyze the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.
Nuzzle - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 1d10. On hit, the target is Paralyzed.
Charge - Self Electric Effect: At-Will. Your next Electric attack will deal +2d8 damage. Until then, your Special Defense is +1. This effect wears off after one min.

Pawmo

Electric / Fighting - Small (Size), Light (Weight) Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Zapper

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Growl, Static, Volt Absorb (When you are hit by an electric-type attack, halve the damage, then you heal that much HP instead of taking damage.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +5)
Arm Thrust - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 1d4. Arm Thrust has -2 during Accuracy Check. Arm Thrust is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Spark - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Somewhat unusually compared to other electric rodents, Pawmi have fairly underdeveloped electric sacs on their cheeks. Instead, their primary electrogenetic organs are located on their pawpads. By rubbing their paws furiously on their cheeks, they can build up electricity and discharge from the pads. They can shoot the electricity from a distance, but it is most effective conducted through enemies by touching them with both of the pads. They have to stand on their hinds legs to do this, however, which they are not very good at. Pawmi fur is good at retaining both heat and static electricity. The heat retention keeps them warm in frigid climates, while the static acts as a secondary defense mechanism against foes that manage to make contact with them. As Pawmi grow more accustomed to bipedalism, they are become better able to defend themselves from attackers; once they are fully comfortable walking on two legs, they usually evolve.

Thunder Wave - Ranged(20ft) Electric Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Paralyzed.

200

Pawmo live in groups in forests and open fields. They are feisty Pokťmon that, while not aggressive, are quick to leap into fights when they begin. Pawmo utilize their electrogenetic pawpads to batter foes with electrified punches. By clapping their hands around enemies, they can cause massive surges of electric current to flow through them. Once a foe is stunned, they will follow up with rapid flurries of punches to take them down. As they fight, static electricity gradually builds up in their fur, increasing the strength of their attacks. Pawmo groups are frequently on the move in search of Berries and other foods. Their leg muscles continue to develop from sustained use as a result. When they find hard Berries, they will run electricity through them with their paws until they are tender enough to eat. Pawmo also communicate with one another by touching pawpads and transmitting electrical signals to one another.

Pawmot

Electric / Fighting - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 6 Speed: 13 (65 ft.) Attack: 12 Special Attack: 7 Skills: Zapper Passives: Agility, Growl, Iron Fist (Your punching attacks deal +4 damage.), Static, Volt Absorb

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +6)

Double Shock - Melee Electric Attack: 1/day 5d12. Double

Shock can only be used if you are Electric-type. After use,

if the user is only Electric type it becomes Normal type,

and if the user is Electric type and another type it loses its

Pawmot have very well-developed leg muscles and can Electric typing. This effect lasts for 10 mins.

roam for long periods without rest. In combat, they add

Close Combat - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit,

kicks to their fighting styles, mixed in with electrified punch- your Defense and Special Defense are -2 for 10 mins.

es. Pawmot are less eager to fight than Pawmo, and show much restraint before entering battle. Once in a fight, however, they can quickly bring down foes much larger than

Revival Blessing - Melee Normal Effect: 1/day. Target ally at 0 or less HP is healed to half Max HP.

themselves with their potent electricity and lightning-fast

attacks. Their fluffy fur stores as much electricity as an electric car, charging up as they dart around the battlefield. In addition to electrocuting enemies, Pawmot have also

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Grasslands / Forests

learned how to deftly control their currents and utilize it to Evolution: Pawmi

Pawmo

Pawmot

benefit allies as well. When one of their companions is knocked out, Pawmot can resuscitate them with jolts of electricity through their paws. Stories of unconscious train-

Proficiencies: Electric / Fighting (Pawmo) / Cutesy / Martial (Pawmot)

ers being revived by benevolent Pawmot are not uncom-

mon in habitats where they dwell.

201

Shinx / Luxio / Luxray 

Shinx

Electric - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Intimidate (+1 Defense), Leer (+1 Attack)
Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Spark - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Luxio

Electric - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Zapper

Passives: Intimidate, Leer, Guts (While afflicted, your Attack is +2.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Swagger - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.

Thunder Fang - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is randomly either Stunned or Paralyzed.

Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Shinx generate electricity through the extension and contraction of their leg muscles, enabling them to charge up as they wander around fields and savannas. When threatened, they will light up their fur in bright flashes, temporarily blinding attackers and giving them time to flee. Shinx live in prides along with their evolutions. They rely primarily on Luxio to bring back food, though they will attempt to chase down smaller prey from time to time to hone their skills. Shinx are often seen playing around, chasing each other around in fields and transferring electricity to each other through small shocks. This play helps train their hunting and electrical skills. If Shinx wander too far from home, they will use electricity to make their fur glow in order to alert their families of their whereabouts. Though they can harness electricity to fire off attacks like, they are rather inexperienced at doing so, often injuring themselves in the process.

202

Luxio live in small groups, with each group representing a pride. These groups do the bulk of the hunting for their families. By touching tails together, Luxio can generate more electricity within their bodies. This electricity can flow through their claws, which are sheathed when not in battle. Slashes from these electrified claws deliver strong enough currents to cause fainting in most foes. Luxio communicate with each other through electrical pulses transferred through their claws. Luxio groups spend much of their time away from their prides, prowling out in the wilderness for prey. When they take down sizable foes, they will bring them back to their prides to share among their families. Luxio are responsible for scouting on their journeys; should they spot anything dangerous, they will immediately report the threats to the head Luxray of their prides. They will also aid in defending their families if necessary.

Luxray

Electric - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Tracker (can see through solid objects), Zapper

Passives: Intimidate, Leer, Scary Face (+2 Speed), Guts

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)

Luxray spend the day prowling around the vicinity of their territories. They have the ability to see through walls and other solid objects via x-ray vision; when their eyes gleam gold, they are using their vision to scan the area. Luxray use this skill to spot hidden threats and track down lost offspring. When their families are threatened, Luxray will attack back ferociously. One pride can hold as many as half a dozen Luxray, each with varying levels of dominance. The leader Luxray can be either gender, with their mates being second-in-command. The remaining Luxray are ranked based on their strength, challenging each other in battle to determine placement. This order determines who eats first at meals, leads the pack during prowls, and other aspects of life as well. Challenging leaders has the highest stakes of them all; losers are exiled from their prides, forced to start new ones on their own. A Luxray pack leader's primary job in its pride is to care for offspring and defend the family. They will also occasionally aid in hunts to take down larger foes.

Charge - Self Electric Effect: At-Will. Your next Electric attack will deal +2d8 damage. Until then, your Special Defense is +1. This effect wears off after one min.
Discharge - Ranged(10ft burst) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Paralyzed.
Wild Charge - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Fields / Savannas

Evolution: Shinx

Luxio

Luxray

Proficiencies: Electric / Fangs

203

Tynamo / Eelektrik / Eelektross 

Tynamo

Electric - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Gilled (can breathe underwater), Glow (can produce light), Hover (can hover), Swimmer (can swim), Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Levitate (You are immune to Ground-type moves while you are airborne.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Charge Beam - Ranged(10ft beam) Electric Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, your Special Attack is +1 for 10 mins.
Spark - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Eelektrik

Electric - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Gilled, Glow, Hover, Swimmer, Zapper

Passives: Levitate

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +2)
Acid Spray - Ranged(20ft) Poison Special Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Discharge - Ranged(10ft burst) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Paralyzed.
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Tynamo live in large schools. Though technically amphibious, these Pokťmon can live their lives either entirely on water, on land, or both with no ill effects. When not in the water, Tynamo levitate by generating weak electromagnetic forces beneath them. These Pokťmon tend to congregate in damper areas where they can easily access water to keep themselves hydrated. They have tiny organs that generate minute electrical charges they can use to shock foes, though the weak voltage fails to significantly hinder opponents. Tynamo, however, find strength in numbers; while individually weak, many Tynamo emitting their shocks together can create jolts as strong as bolts of lightning. When threatened, a school of Tynamo will ball tightly together so that any foes that attempt to attack will be met with discharged electricity from the entire group.

204

Eeletrik dwell either in marine waters or damp caves where they do not run the risk of being dried out by the sunlight. These serpentine Pokťmon slither about in the water and in the air in constant search of food. The spots that run down the lengths of their bodies can also release electricity in short bursts. When they come across suitable prey, Eelektric will rush at their victims and quickly coil their bodies around them, paralyzing them with electricity to prevent their escape. Eelektrik will begin searching for another meal immediately after eating, as they are voracious eaters. If unable to find small prey for long periods of time, these species will even go after larger, slow-moving Pokťmon. Instead of constricting and shocking them, however, Eelektrik will dart in and sink their teeth into their sides, tearing out circular holes of flesh and swimming away before the larger Pokťmon are able to react. Such Eelektrik attacks can leave distinctive round scars on their victims.

Eelektross

Electric - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 14

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Gilled, Glow, Hover, Swimmer, Zapper Passives: Coil (+2 Attack, +1 Defense), Levitate

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +5, Effect +2)

Gastro Acid - Ranged(10ft) Poison Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target cannot benefit from any ability passives for 10 mins.

Wild Eelektross serve as apex predators, both in and out Thunderbolt - Ranged(30ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day

of the water. Eelektross use their sucker-like mouths to

3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check,

draw in smaller prey and swallow them whole. To subdue the target is Paralyzed.

larger victims, they latch onto them with their teeth and let loose powerful electric shocks. Capable of both levitating and waddling on land with their flippers, Eelektross will ambush unsuspecting prey on the shore. They will grab victims with their arms before sinking in their fangs, electrocuting them, and dragging them into the sea. These Pokťmon are

Thrash - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. Thrash is a two -turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.

territorial, claiming large swathes of shoreline as their own.

They engage in displays of dominance using the crest-like fins on their heads to assert themselves. Notably, both male and female Eelektross engage in this behavior, unlike in most species where only the males might do so.

Biology: Egg Group - Amorphous / Water 2, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Carnivore / Ergovore, Habitat - Beaches / Caves / Rivers

Evolution: Tynamo

Eelektrik

Thunder Stone

Eelektross

Proficiencies: Electric / Poison (Eelektross) / Fangs (Eelektrik / Eelektross) / Glutton (Eelektross)

205

Blitzle / Zebstrika 

Blitzle

Electric - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 3 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Lightning Rod (Any foe's ranged Electric-type attacks within 25ft or any adjacent foe's Electric-type attacks are negated and drawn to you. Your Special Attack is +2 until the end of your next turn whenever you negate an Electric-type attack.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)

Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.
Shock Wave - Ranged(20ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.
Flame Charge - Melee Fire Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins.
Zebstrika
Electric - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)
Hit Points: 48 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6
Speed: 14 (70 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 8
Skills: Zapper
Passives: Agility (+2 Agility), Tail Whip, Lightning Rod, Motor Drive (Any Electric-type attack that you negate raises your speed +1 for 10 mins. *This passive is different than usual for Zebstrika), Sap Sipper (You are immune to Grass-type attacks. If you would be hit by a Grass-type attack, your Attack is +2 for 10 mins.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +4, Effect +7)
Pursuit - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d6. Pursuit deals +6 damage to a target if they ended their turn further away from you during the start of their turn.

Blitzle can be found in small herds of roughly two dozen members on dry plains and savannas. They are especially common during thunderstorms, when large numbers of them congregate out in the open to absorb discharged electricity. The tips of the manes on their heads act as lightning rods, directing lightning to themselves and storing it for later use. Blitzle flash their manes with varying frequencies, rhythms, and intensities to communicate with others. When threatened, they can discharge large amounts of electricity at once in bright flashes of light, giving them time to dash away while foes are blinded. Blitzle have no way of generating their own electricity, however, so they rely largely on the weather to charge up. Because of this, Blitzle rarely use their electricity for anything other than communication unless the situation is absolutely dire. Their black bodies and white stripes help them avoid predators--when many Blitzle stand in a group, it becomes difficult to distinguish one from another due to their blending patterns.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Plains / Savannas

Evolution: Blitzle

Zebstrika

Proficiencies: Electric / Fire

Stomp - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Wild Charge - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.

206

Zebstrika are temperamental and unpredictable Pokťmon. They can be found in herds averaging about 20 or so members. They can harness electricity from a variety of sources, including the atmosphere, friction, and lightning bolts during thunderstorms. Zebstrika are easily angered and will charge at full gallop at anything they perceive as threats. Once a single Zebstrika in a herd charges, the rest of the herd charges as well, leading to a stampede within a matter of seconds. As Zebstrika run, their manes begin discharging bolts of electricity in all directions, stunning everything nearby. The sound of a Zebstrika galloping at full speed is akin to a thunder clap, while a herd of them makes the ground reverberate as if a tremendous storm is approaching. Zebstrika communicate by flashing their manes in a variety of patterns, though their stripes can now light up and flash as well.

Electrike store electricity from the surrounding air in their bristly fur. While running, they use this electricity to stimulate their leg muscles, accelerating them to great speeds. However, they can only travel short distances before having to recharge again, making this more of an emergency escape tactic or hunting maneuver than a method of travel. In addition to gathering electricity from the air, Electrike can also convert friction and static they gain from running and rubbing their fur together into usable electricity; they emit a crackling sound while sprinting as their charges build. When the air is particularly dry or a when thunderstorm is approaching, their fur will begin to give off sparks. If the drop if humidity is sudden, they even may release all of their electricity at once in violent showers of sparks. They are fond of rubbing up against carpets and other surfaces that generate lots of static electricity.

207

Electrike / Manectric 

Electrike

Electric - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Howl (+1 Attack), Static (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Paralyze the attacker.)
Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.
Spark - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Manectric

Electric - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 42 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Zapper

Passives: Howl, Lightning Rod (Any foe's ranged Electrictype attacks within 25ft or any adjacent foe's Electric-type attacks are negated and drawn to you. Your Special Attack is +2 until the end of your next turn whenever you negate an Electric-type attack.), Minus (If at least one ally has Plus or Minus within 10ft of you, you have +3 Special Attack.), Static

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)

Thunder Fang - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is randomly either Stunned or Paralyzed.
Roar - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, Pokťmon that are smaller than you will not want to fight and will attempt to run away from you.
Thunder - Ranged(30ft, 5ft blast) Electric Special Attack: 1/ day 5d12. Thunder has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Raining. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the targets are Paralyzed.

Manectric gather electricity from the air in their yellow manes. Their fur is bristly and always stands on end thanks to the static electricity they hold. Their manes constantly discharge electricity, even when they are sleeping. When they attack, they concentrate their electricity before releasing it in powerful bursts. Manectric can create thunderclouds out of thin air using the electricity in their manes. They are solitary hunters that rarely appear before people. Manectric tend to make their nests in spots where lightning has struck, in turn places with Manectric also tend to have more thunderstorms because of how these Pokťmon can conjure them. The sparks Manectric discharge while idle have been known to ignite forest fires. Consequently, most habitats Manectric inhabit are devoid of large trees, with only sparse, dry grasses sprouting from the earth. Manectric stimulate their muscles with electricity in order to increase their running speed. They can also soothe aching limbs with electricity to alleviate soreness and keep sprinting for longer periods of time.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Grasslands

Evolution: Electrike

Manectric

Proficiencies: Electric / Fangs

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 208

Helioptile / Heliolisk 

Helioptile

Electric / Normal - Small (Size), Light (Weight) Hit Points: 24 Defense: 3 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Dry Skin (In sunny weather, you lose 4 HP at the end of your actions. In rainy weather, you recover 4 HP at the end of your actions. You are immune to Water-type attacks.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Pound - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Thunder Shock - Ranged(20ft) Electric Special Attack: AtWill 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Helioptile make their homes in hot, flat deserts where there are few trees to block out the sunlight. These Pokťmon are adapted to the sweltering, dry conditions of deserts and can survive for long periods of time without drinking water. The flaps on either side of their heads help dissipate excess heat; they can also unfold into flat frills, which, thanks to their black coloration, can absorb sunlight very efficiently. Helioptile convert the sunlight absorbed by their frills into electrical energy, which they can use to sustain themselves in lieu of food. They can also use this energy to defend themselves from predators by stunning them with electric shocks. Interrupting sunbathing Helioptile stresses them out greatly, leaving them weak and defenseless against predators. The triangular tips of their frills light up when launching electrical attacks. On cloudy days, Helioptile will hide themselves and lie dormant in order to conserve as much energy as possible until the sun comes out again.

Mud-Slap - Ranged(5ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 1d6. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.

Heliolisk

Electric/Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Glow (can produce light), Zapper

Passives: Tail Whip, Dry Skin, Sand Veil (While in Sandstorming Weather, any foe's attacks made against you have 1 during accuracy check and you don't take damage from Sandstorming weather.), Solar Power (While in Sunny weather, you deal an additional 4 damage while attacking. After acting in Sunny weather, you take 4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)

Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet -Omnivore / Phototroph, Habitat - Deserts

Evolution: Helioptile

Sun Stone Heliolisk

Proficiencies: Electric / Grass (Ranged Special Attack) (Heliolisk) / Energy Blast (Heliolisk)

Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.
Parabolic Charge - Melee Electric Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Solar Beam - Ranged(30ft beam) Grass Special Attack: 1/ day 5d12. Solar Beam is a two-turn move unless it is Sunny. On the first turn, do nothing. On the second turn or if it is Sunny, roll Solar Beam's Accuracy Check and damage.

209

The small orange frills surrounding a Heliolisk neck are

Tadbulb are amphibious Pokťmon that spend compara-

part of a much larger black collar which can unfold into a ble amounts of time swimming in ponds as well as floating

light-absorbing disk around the Pokťmon's head. The great- above dry land. While they have to return to the water peri-

er area of a Heliolisk frills allow it to create electricity

odically to keep their skins moist and breathe, Tadbulb can

through the photoelectric effect. Heliolisk also use electricity to stimulate their own muscles. They can cover a great distance and even run across the surface of water for a brief period of time using the extra strength provided by jolts of electricity. However, they must recharge after such energy-demanding tasks. Heliolisk spend much of their time standing still with their frills unfolded in the sun to gather energy. When they attack, the tips of their frills will glow brightly.

generate electromagnetic energy to levitate out of the water and escape predators. During thunderstorms, they are able to float even higher off the ground. Tadbulb shake their tails to generate electricity. Naturally paddling through creeks helps them gather the electricity necessary to take flight. When they sense danger is near, they can illuminate their heads in blinking patterns to signal this to their allies. Different blinking patterns can convey information about enemy type, location, and threat level. Tadbulb also light up

their heads briefly when expressing strong emotions.

210

Tadbulb / Bellibolt 

Tadbulb

Electric - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 3

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Glow (can produce light), Hover (can hover), Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Static (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Paralyze the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Bellibolt possess highly elastic bodies that can absorb the impact of blunt physical attacks. They expand and contract their bodies repeatedly to power the electrogenetic dynamos located within their bellies. As they repeat this action, the energy stored increases until it is discharged through the two bumps on the sides of their heads. These bumps are very commonly mistaken for eyes, and indeed scientists suspect these false eyes are intended to make Bellibolt appear much larger than they actually are to predators. When Bellibolt are struck by attacks, the impacts charge their dynamos and cause them to reflexively release surges of electricity in self-defense. They rarely attack first in battle because of the power of this counterattack. When Bellibolt are hungry, their stomachs crackle with a distinct sound, and it is not uncommon for wetland travelers to mistake the unsettling drone of many hungry Bellibolt as the sound of an impending thunderstorm.

Thunder Shock - Ranged(20ft) Electric Special Attack: AtWill 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Charge - Self Electric Effect: At-Will. Your next Electric attack will deal +2d8 damage. Until then, your Special Defense is +1. This effect wears off after one min.

Bellibolt

Electric - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 66 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Glow, Inflatable (can expand), Zapper

Passives: Electromorphosis (When hit by an attack that deals damage, you may use the move Charge as a free action), Damp (Chloroblast, Explosion, Misty Explosion, and Self -Destruct fail to do anything if used within 40ft of you.), Static

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Ergovore, Habitat - Lakes / Wetlands

Evolution: Tadbulb

Thunder Stone Bellibolt

Proficiencies: Electric / Water (Bellibolt)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +2)
Slack Off - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP.
Electric Terrain - Electric Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Electrified Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Anyone touching the ground within the Electrified terrain is immune to being put to Sleep. Within the Electrified Terrain, Electric-type attacks deal an additional 8 damage. This terrain disappears after 2 mins.
Discharge - Ranged(10ft burst) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Paralyzed.

211

Toxel / Toxtricity 

Toxel

Electric / Poison - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Rattled (When a foe hits you with a Bug-type, Ghost-type, or Dark-type attack, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins. This can stack.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)

Nuzzle - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 1d10. On hit, the target is Paralyzed.

Acid Spray - Ranged(20ft) Poison Special Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Flail - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 1d10. If you are at less than half of your Max HP, Flail has 1d20 for damage instead. If you are at less than 5 HP, Flail has 5d12 for damage instead.
Toxtricity
Electric / Poison - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7
Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 13 Special Attack: 11
Skills: Zapper
Passives: Scary Face (+2 Speed), Shift Gear (+1 Attack, +2 Speed), Screech (+2 Attack), Plus (If at least one ally has Plus or Minus within 10ft of you, you have +3 Special Attack.), Punk Rock (Your sound-based attacks deal +4 damage. You take 4 less damage from sound-based attacks.), Rattled, Technician (When rolling damage, replace any rolled 1s or 2s with 3.)

Neither skilled at camouflage nor offense, Toxel seem like sitting ducks out in the open grasslands and badlands that they call home. However, most Pokťmon know to avoid attacking these creatures. Toxel secrete poison from specialized sacs in their bodies through their skin. Even grazing them will lead to numbness, while more serious exposure can lead to paralysis. Furthermore, Toxel can manipulate their toxin to perform a chemical reaction and create electricity. Though the voltage is not particularly high, it is enough to create an uncomfortable tingling; in combination with their toxin, most predators learn to stay away from all Toxel after a single unpleasant experience. As they are neither very fast nor strong, Toxel primarily eat unfortunate Bug-types that stray too close and become immobilized by their poison or electricity. Some Toxel tend to be brash and impulsive, while others are more reserved and cautious. These personality differences appear dictate what form of Toxtricity they will eventually evolve into.

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +5, Effect +6)
Shock Wave - Ranged(20ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.
Venoshock - Ranged(10ft) Poison Special Attack: 3/day 2d10. If the target is Poisoned or Toxified, Venoshock has 4d10 for damage instead.

Biology: Egg Group - Human-Like / Monster, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Badlands / Grasslands / Swamps

Evolution: Toxel

Toxtricity

Proficiencies: Electric / Poison / Sound (Toxtricity) / Tricky

Overdrive - Ranged(10ft burst) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.

This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2.

212

There are two main forms of Toxtricity that display

starkly different personalities: Amped Form Toxtricity are

Voltorb are mysterious Pokťmon, first appearing with

short-tempered and quick to act, while Low Key Form

the advent of the first mass-producing Pokť Ball factories.

Toxtricity are calmer and more reserved in demeanor. Both species can wield powerful poison as well as electricity in combat, and few Pokťmon dare confront them in the wild because of this. Toxtricity can generate electricity by strumming at their chests; by clawing at the protrusions on their torsos, they can generate energy through the friction.

They rather uncannily resemble large Pokť Balls themselves. Many trainers have mistaken Voltorb or their evolutions Electrode for them from afar. Wild Voltorb are prone to screeching, shocking or exploding at the slightest provocation, especially when someone draws too near.

This action also sounds very similar to the strumming of a Their preferred form of locomotion is rolling, but if they hit

bass guitar, making Toxtricity habitats sound somewhat

bumps, they will also explode. Voltorb draw energy from

similar to the practice room of a rock band. Amped Form sources of electricity, such as the trolleys of electric trains

Toxtricity have a reputation for being competitive with

or generators. However, if they draw too much energy at

other species, while Low Key Form Toxtricity are said to be once, they will overload and, unsurprisingly, blow up. These

haughty and disapproving of those who try to challenge

volatile Pokťmon have been discovered to contain very few

them. Toxtricity will seek out stagnant, putrid water and

naturally-occurring components, leading scientists to

drink it in order to concentrate its toxins. Because of this, believe that they may have stemmed from sort of

individuals in different areas each have their own cocktails manmade experiment involving Pokť Balls. Something may

of poison.

have gone wrong during the experiment, explaining their

tendencies to self-destruct so easily. Despite their

suspected artificial origins, they are now found in the wild

near abandoned factories and other vacant industrial

complexes.

213

Voltorb / Electrode 

Voltorb

Electric - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 3

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Eerie Impulse (+2 Special Defense), Static (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Paralyze the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +3, Effect +5)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Sonic Boom - Ranged(5ft) Normal Special Attack: At-Will 10. Do not add bonuses of any kind to this damage.
Spark - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Electrode

Electric - Large (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 36 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 15 (75 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Zapper

Passives: Eerie Impulse, Screech (+2 Attack), Aftermath (When knocked out by a melee attack, the attacker loses 1d20 hit points.), Soundproof (You are immune to soundbased attacks.), Static

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +7)
Electro Ball - Ranged(15ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. Electro Ball can only be used against targets slower than you.
Self-Destruct - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Attack: 1/day 7d20. Set your HP to 0, then roll 1d20. On 10 or less, your HP is set to -100% HP and you must make a death saving throw.
Swift - Ranged(20ft) Normal Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.

Electrode store high amounts of electrical energy within themselves and will let it out in huge explosions at the slightest provocation. They feed on electrical energy in the atmosphere or directly from generators. Groups of them at power plants have been known to cause blackouts. Sometimes, if they bloat themselves on electricity, they will temporarily drift through the air like floating, explosive balloons. When lightning strikes, a large number of them may detonate at once from the overload of electricity. These Pokťmon don't always even need stimuli; sometimes, bored Electrode may explode just to amuse themselves.

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Ergovore, Habitat - Urban Plant

Evolution: Voltorb

Electrode

Proficiencies: Electric

Evolution Shift compatible with Voltorb (Antique) family (215)
214

Voltorb / Electrode (Antique) 

Voltorb (Antique)

Electric / Grass - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 3

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Eerie Impulse (+2 Special Defense), Static (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Paralyze the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +3, Effect +5)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Spark - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Magical Leaf - Ranged(25ft) Grass Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.

Antique Voltorb are thought to be a more primitive variant of Voltorb. Their composition very much resembles the Apricorn that Pokť Balls were historically fashioned from. These Voltorb are much less temperamental than their relatives. In fact, rather than exploding, these Pokťmon discharge large bursts of electricity from the holes on their heads. They tend to do this when excited. What they lack in anger, however, Voltorb make up for in impulsiveness; they are excited by the most mundane things, leading to unexpected flares of electrical energy followed by mirthful laughter. No one knows exactly what are within the holes of Voltorb. They do sound hollow, however, with what seem to be numerous seeds rattling around whenever they roll. Because of their tendencies to shock bystanders at the slightest provocation, people would plug up their holes and kick them out of settlements--literally. This usually led to much larger discharges of electricity, somewhere away from the village. According to some, this treatment is why the more common Voltorb are so short-tempered and prone to exploding.

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Ergovore, Habitat - Forests

Evolution: Voltorb

Electrode

Proficiencies: Electric / Grass (Ranged Special Attacks)

Electrode (Antique)

Electric / Grass - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 15 (75 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Zapper

Passives: Eerie Impulse, Screech (+2 Attack), Aftermath (When knocked out by a melee attack, the attacker loses 1d20 hit points.), Soundproof (You are immune to soundbased attacks.), Static

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +7)

Energy Ball - Ranged(20ft) Grass Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Self-Destruct - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Attack: 1/day 7d20. Set your HP to 0, then roll 1d20. On 10 or less, your HP is set to -100% HP and you must make a death saving throw.
Chloroblast - Ranged(30ft burst) Grass Special Attack: 1/day 4d12. You lose HP equal to half of your Max HP, then your Speed is -3 for 10 mins.

Evolution Shift compatible with Voltorb family (214)
215

Antique Electrode store even more electricity within their Wattrel construct their nests in the hollows of seaside

bodies than Voltorb. With tissue almost identical to that of cliffs. When they take flight, the wind rushing under their

Apricorns, their resemblance to traditional Pokť Balls is

wings stimulates their feathers, and the energy is trans-

more than superficial. These Pokťmon convert solar energy ferred into special electrogenetic organs within their bones.

into electricity and store it in their abdomens. When an-

Once they are charged with electricity, Wattrel dive into the

gered, they release this energy into currents that arc in the sea. They release bursts of electricity to incapacitate their

surrounding air, said to be equal in strength to twenty light- prey before returning to their nests with their catches. Wat-

ning bolts. After a Electrode lets loose, the surrounding

trel often hunt in flocks; these groups can electrocute an

land is often totally scorched with the air still crackling, a entire section of water by coordinating their dives into syn-

telltale sign of its presence. If their holes are plugged, they chronized rings. They may squabble if they do not bring

become unable to release this energy until it builds up

back enough food for the entire flock, however, and will

enough to pop the plug free. These Electrode, though not race one another to grab whatever was stunned by their

as irritable as their relatives, are still feared due to their

maneuvers. Wattrel nests are a delicacy in some parts of

ability to destroy entire structures at once.

the world. Because they are charged with electricity, they

make a curious crackling sound when eaten and fizz loudly

on the tongue.

216

Wattrel / Kilowattrel 

Wattrel

Electric / Flying - Small (Size), Light (Weight) Hit Points: 24 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Flight (can fly), Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Wind Power (When hit by a wind based attack, you may use the move Charge as a free action)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Peck - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Thunder Shock - Ranged(20ft) Electric Special Attack: AtWill 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Charge - Self Electric Effect: At-Will. Your next Electric attack will deal +2d8 damage. Until then, your Special Defense is +1. This effect wears off after one min.

Kilowattrel

Kilowattrel frequently travel in flocks. They can sometimes be seen taking off in formation gracefully from seaside cliffs, soaring on ocean breezes. Their long wings can glide for long periods of time without flapping, and Kilowattrel themselves have been known to cover over hundreds of kilometers a day across the sea. Kilowattrel generate electricity harnessing wind power using special organs in their bones. Once these organs are full, however, Kilowattrel can expand their impressive throat sacs and continue to store additional energy. Wattrel judge mates by the sizes of their throat sacs, and thus their capacities to store electricity. Despite their habitats, Kilowattrel are poor swimmers. Their feathers are not coated with oil like other seabirds because it would interfere with their electricity generation. Because of this, they can only dive into the water to stun and catch prey before resurfacing immediately, or else risk waterlogging.

Electric / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 15 (85 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Flight, Zapper

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Growl, Volt Absorb (When you are hit by an electric-type attack, halve the damage, then you heal that much HP instead of taking damage.), Wind Power

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +7)

Dual Wingbeat - Melee Flying Attack: 3/day 2d8. Dual Wingbeat is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.

Discharge - Ranged(10ft burst) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Paralyzed.

Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Flying, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Beaches

Evolution: Wattrel

Kilowattrel

Proficiencies: Electric / Flying / Avian / Winged

217

Yamper / Boltund 

Yamper

Electric - Small (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Tracker (can follow scents), Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Charm (+1 Defense), Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Rattled (When a foe hits you with a Bug-type, Ghost-type, or Darktype attack, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins. This can stack.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Nuzzle - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 1d10. On hit, the target is Paralyzed.
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Boltund
Electric - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6
Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 10 Special Attack: 9
Skills: Tracker, Zapper
Passives: Charm, Tail Whip, Competitive (If a foe lowers any of your stats, you have +2 Special Attack until your lowered stats are returned to normal.) Rattled, Strong Jaw (Your biting attacks deal +4 damage.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +4, Effect +6)
Charge - Self Electric Effect: At-Will. Your next Electric attack will deal +2d8 damage. Until then, your Special Defense is +1. This effect wears off after one min.

Yamper have historically been popular as herding Pokťmon in agricultural communities, helping farmers corral livestock. Today, they are common pets even in suburban communities. This may make them seem like industrious Pokťmon but these Pokťmon love to play far more, and only work in exchange for treats. Yamper also have short attention spans and cannot resist chasing moving things. When found in the wild, they maintain this playful behavior and will curiously approach trainers to play. Yamper can only generate electricity as they run; their electrogenetic organs are located at the bases of their tails, charging their bodies with energy as they sprint. Yamper will begin crackling with electricity if they run for long enough, as the energy has nowhere else to go but the surrounding air. Despite their shortcomings, Yamper are still very popular for their loyal and affectionate natures; some even find their laziness and lack of ability to focus endearing.

Wild Charge - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.
Play Rough - Melee Fairy Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Fields / Grasslands

Evolution: Yamper

Boltund

Proficiencies: Electric / Cutesy / Fangs

218

When fossil reanimators first constructed the skeleton of

the first Arctozolt, they presumed that it was an arctic crea-

ture. They hypothesized that they dwelled near icy waters

and froze prey on their cold bodies to preserve their meals.

However, their incongruous tops were clearly not designed

to withstand frigid temperatures, so they suggested that

the constant shivering of their heads and necks helped

them generate electrical energy. This imbalance also would

have made it difficult for them to move their oversized bot-

tom halves, and perhaps this sluggishness would explain

how they went extinct. Revived Arctozolt clearly show that

two halves of separate Pokťmon were accidentally spliced

together in the reassembly process, and the Pokťmon in-

deed display all of the questionable adaptations scientists

thought they would possess. Uncomfortable in both polar

Boltund, are usually serious in nature and able to focus on tasks at hand. They still retain their playfulness outside

and temperate climates, these resurrected creatures require external thermoregulation to stay alive.

of work, however. Boltund generate electricity by running

and store it within their legs, reinforcing both their stamina

and their strength. At full charge, they can either break

speeds of 50 mph by sprinting or maintain a more steady

pace and run for a day without rest. These traits make Bol-

tund excellent at chasing down stray livestock. In the wild,

packs of Boltund can be seen zipping across grasslands.

They are extremely loyal to one another and will share elec-

tricity with tired pack members to rejuvenate them.

Dracozolt are an anomaly of modern science. When some reanimator archaeologists first unearthed fossils in the desert, they did their best to assemble the uncovered bones into their correct configurations. Unfortunately, they had uncovered no complete skeletons, but did not know it at the time. The result was the chimera fossil Pokťmon like Dracozolt, who they had assumed had a larger posterior end than anterior end as a quirk of evolution. Based on their jaw structure, these scientists had hypothesized that Dracozolt were herbivorous, feeding on nuts and seeds. Their powerful hind legs were believed the generate electricity as they ran. Dracozolt would have gone extinct as plant-based food sources dwindled, perhaps from their own overconsumption or a cooling climate. However, the community was in for a shock when modern resurrection technology revived the Dracozolt we see today. Of the fossil chimeras, Dracozolt are perhaps the best adapted, though this is not saying much. Other than their mismatched torso sizes, they can maneuver and feed with relative stability.

219

Arctozolt 

Electric / Ice - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Freezer (can create ice), Swimmer (can swim), Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Slush Rush (While in Hailing weather, your Speed is +2. and you don't take damage from Hailing weather), Static (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Paralyze the attacker.), Volt Absorb (When you are hit by an electric-type attack, halve the damage, then you heal that much HP instead of taking damage.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)
Thunder Shock - Ranged(20ft) Electric Special Attack: AtWill 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Slam has -2 during Accuracy Check.
Freeze-Dry - Ranged(10ft) Ice Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. Freeze-Dry is Super effective against Water types. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.

Dracozolt 

Electric / Dragon - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Hustle (Your attacks against foes have -2 Accuracy. After the first time you miss an attack during an encounter, the -2 Accuracy penalty is removed and you gain +4 Attack until the end of the encounter.), Sand Rush (While in Sandstorming Weather, your Speed is +2 and you don't take damage from Sandstorming weather.), Volt Absorb (When you are hit by an electric-type attack, halve the damage, then you heal that much HP instead of taking damage.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +4, Effect +4)
Thunder Shock - Ranged(20ft) Electric Special Attack: AtWill 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Slam has -2 during Accuracy Check.
Dragon Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Biology: Egg Group - No Eggs, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat Unknown
Proficiencies: Electric / Ice

Biology: Egg Group - No Eggs, Diet -Omnivore , Habitat Unknown
Proficiencies: Dragon / Electric

220

Dedenne 

Emolga 

Electric / Fairy - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 8

Electric / Flying - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Zapper (can produce electricity)

Skills: Flight (can fly), Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Charm (+1 Defense), Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Cheek Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Motor

Pouch (Whenever you consume a berry, you recover 10 HP in Drive (Any Electric-type attack that hits you is negated and

addition to any other effects.), Plus (If at least one ally has

your speed is +1 for 10 mins. This can stack.), Static

Plus or Minus within 10ft or you, you have +3 Special Attack.) (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4,

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +5)

Paralyze the attacker.)

Nuzzle - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 1d10. On hit, the tar-

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +6)

get is Paralyzed.

Spark - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got

Charge Beam - Ranged(10ft beam) Electric Special Attack:

14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

At-Will 1d12. On hit, your Special Attack is +1 for 10 mins. Acrobatics - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Acrobatics

Play Rough - Melee Fairy Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the

cannot be used if you have a held item.

target's Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Discharge - Ranged(10ft burst) Electric Special Attack: 3/day

3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, all

Dedenne are naturally found in meadows and fields, but targets are Paralyzed.

are far more commonly seen in cities. These Pokťmon

drain electricity from wall sockets by sticking their tails into them; they sometimes become household pests, as a small Biology: Egg Group - Field / Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, family of Dedenne living in and draining the electricity of a Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Forests

home can quickly cause electricity bills to skyrocket. De-

Proficiencies: Electric / Flying / Cutesy

denne can fire bolts of electricity from their lower antennae

-shaped whiskers; their upper ones detect changes in air

and electric currents around them. These whiskers are also

capable of sending radio waves, allowing Dedenne to com-

municate with each other over. Radios sometimes experi-

ence interference when these Pokťmon are in the area.

Despite the numerous problems Dedenne can cause, how-

ever, they make for popular pets because of their cuteness

and relative ease of care, as they can subsist entirely on

electricity from wall sockets.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Ergovore / Herbivore, Habitat - Fields / Meadows / Urban
Proficiencies: Electric / Fairy / Cutesy

221

Like many Electric-type rodents, Emolga produce and

Morpeko appear to be adorable, docile rodents as they

store electricity within their cheek pouches. They have cape scurry about pleasant grasslands and fields. However,

-like membranes under their arms that allow them to glide when their stomachs begin growling, they turn into differ-

from tree to tree in forests. Emolga are also able to ride

ent beasts entirely. Hangry Mode Morpeko, as they are

winds with their membranes; they can even ascend up-

called, are absolute menaces, terrorizing everything around

wards and soar when weather conditions are ideal. These them as they search for food. They are not above acts of

membranes discharge electricity as they glide. Though ra- brutal violence against those standing between them and

ther clumsy on the ground, Emolga are agile both in the

sustenance. Once Morpeko nourish themselves, they will

trees and in the air. To avoid predators, Emolga will leap from one tree branch and glide to another while attempting to shock them from above in hopes of knocking them to the ground. Their aerial agility allows them to escape from the vast majority of terrestrial predators, though unfavora-

revert back to their Full Belly Modes--but not for long, as their high metabolisms mean that these Pokťmon will get hungry quite frequently. Morpeko generate electricity by stuffing seeds into their cheek sacs; when in Hangry Mode, this power is mysteriously converted into a Dark-type energy that can sometimes be seen radiating from their cheeks.

ble weather conditions and storms may hinder their abili- Morpeko will roast these seeds with electricity to make

ties. These Pokťmon will collect nuts and Berries and store them easier to digest. Even in Full Belly mode, they can be

them near their nests in preparation for winter. Emolga will very protective of their food stores.

defend their nests very fiercely with electric shocks; this

keeps most winged Pokťmon away from their otherwise-

vulnerable food caches.

222

Morpeko 

Oricorio 

Electric / Dark - Small (Size), Light (Weight)
Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6
Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 7
Skills: Zapper (can produce electricity)
Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Leer (+1 Attack), Hunger Switch (Whenever Morpeko acts, it changes from Full Belly mode to Hangry mode or back into Full Belly mode from Hangry mode. Aura Wheel is Electric-type in Full Belly mode, Aura Wheel is Dark-type in Hangry mode.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +6)
Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.
Spark - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Aura Wheel - Melee Electric Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins. If you are Hangry, Aura Wheel is Dark-type.

Electric / Flying - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Dancer (Oricorio appearances and types change with the nectars they drink. At least four forms are known: Baile form is Fire-type, Pom-Pom form is Electric-type, Pa'u form is Psychic-type, Sensu form is Ghost-type.), Flight (can fly)

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Growl (+1 Defense), Keen Eye (Your accuracy checks cannot be negatively affected by foes.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)

Air Cutter - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. Air Cutter has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Air Cutter is a critical hit.

Teeter Dance - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, all targets are Confused.

Revelation Dance - Ranged(10ft burst) Electric Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. This attack's type is dependent on your primary type.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days,

Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Fields / Grasslands

Biology: Egg Group - Flying / Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 10

Proficiencies: Electric / Dark / Cutesy

Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Meadows

Proficiencies: Electric / Flying / Avian / Winged

223

Pachirisu 

Electric - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain), Zapper (can produce electricity)

Oricorio have adapted different forms depending on the kinds of nectar they drink; each one has its own typing and dance style, and Oricorio can swap between them by sipping nectar from different flowers. Oricorio that sip yellow nectar adopt the Pom-Pom Style. These Electric-type Oricorio rub their feathers together to generate static and shock foes with punches. Their cheery moves perk up gloomy onlookers.

Passives: Charm (+1 Defense), Run Away (+1 Speed), Volt Absorb (When you are hit by an electric-type attack, halve the damage, then you heal that much HP instead of taking damage.)
Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +5)
Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.
Hyper Fang - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Discharge - Ranged(10ft burst) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Paralyzed.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 4 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Forests / Urban Plants
Proficiencies: Electric / Cutesy

Pachirisu are often found scurrying about forests, climbing up and down trees. They also sometimes make their home in city parks and even power plants. Their fur crackles with electricity, which is particularly concentrated in their bushy tails. Their cheek pouches are responsible for their electricity, producing and distributing charge throughout their bodies. They are often seen rubbing cheek pouches together in an attempt to share their stored electricity. When endangered, they can fire bolts of electricity from their tails. They have a unique way of protecting their collected food; they save the fur they shed throughout the day, fashioning it into electrified furballs. When they stash food in tree hollows or the eaves of houses, they also throw in some of these puffs. If intruders attempt to steal food and touch a furball, they will instead get a nasty shock. When Pachirisu sleep, they curl their tails around to use as pillows. They are agile Pokťmon that can of maneuver through tree branches with ease.
224

Pincurchin 

Electric - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Electric Surge (As a free action you may deplete one use of Electric Terrain and use Electric Terrain.), Lightning Rod (Any foe's ranged Electric-type attacks within 25ft or any adjacent foe's Electric-type attacks are negated and drawn to you. Your Special Attack is +2 until the end of your next turn whenever you negate an Electric-type attack.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +4, Effect +1)
Zing Zap - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Poison Jab - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.
Recover - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP.
Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Amorphous, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Beaches / Ocean Floors / Ocean Reefs
Proficiencies: Electric / Water (Ranged attacks) / Prickly

Pincurchin are simple Pokťmon that are content spending their entire lives in a single tide pool or spot on the sea floor. They slowly shuffle from place to place in search of seaweed, scraping it off of rocks using their teeth. These Pokťmon are well known for their electrified spines, which are a perennial nuisance for ocean swimmers. When a Pincurchin spine pierces the skin, it releases a steady flow of current that electrifies the victim. Thanks to their stored energy, Pincurchin spines continue to discharge electricity for at least three hours even after breaking off the Pokťmon. As this usually occurs in the ocean, the breaking of a Pincurchin spine also releases a shock of electricity into the surrounding water. The initial pain caused by their injuries settles into numbness as the electricity continues to flow, with a persistent tingling sensation accompanying the return of feeling in the area. These electrified spines are sufficient to deter oceanic predators, who after all are primarily Water-types.

225

Plusle 

Minun 

Electric - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Genetic Relation (can breed to produce Minun), Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Charm (+1 Defense), Nasty Plot (+1 Special Attack), Lightning Rod (Any foe's ranged Electrictype attacks within 25ft or any adjacent foe's Electric-type attacks are negated and drawn to you. Your Special Attack is +2 until the end of your next turn whenever you negate an Electric-type attack.), Plus (If at least one ally has Plus or Minus within 10ft of you, you have +3 Special Attack.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +5, Effect +6)

Thunder Wave - Ranged(20ft) Electric Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Paralyzed.

Electro Ball - Ranged(15ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. Electro Ball can only be used against targets slower than you.

Thunderbolt - Ranged(30ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Electric - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Genetic Relation (can breed to produce Plusle), Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Charm (+1 Defense), Fake Tears (+2 Special Attack), Minus (If at least one ally has Plus or Minus within 10ft of you, you have +3 Special Attack.), Volt Absorb (When you are hit by an electric-type attack, halve the damage, then you heal that much HP instead of taking damage.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +5, Effect +6)

Encore - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. If the target can, it must use the last move it did for the next 3 rounds or until it no longer can.

Electro Ball - Ranged(15ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. Electro Ball can only be used against targets slower than you.

Thunderbolt - Ranged(30ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Plusle are almost never found without their other halves, Minun. They love to cheer on their teammates, creating electric pom-poms out of their own sparks by discharging electricity from their paws. When their allies succeed, Plusle will short out areas all over their bodies to release shower of sparks in celebration. The sizes of their pom-poms and electric showers grow as matches become more intense. Wild Plusle are playful, but timid, Pokťmon. Though they enjoy goofing around, they rarely initiate contact with others. They group together with their siblings, but will pair up with wild Minun when given the chance. Plusle are known for climbing on top of telephone poles to feed on electricity. Once they can no longer hold any more, they will climb back down and share their electricity with Minun, who are not as adept at climbing.

Biology: Egg Group - Fairy / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Fields
Proficiencies: Electric / Cutesy

Biology: Egg Group - Fairy / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Fields
Proficiencies: Electric / Cutesy

226

Rotom 

Electric / Ghost - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Flight (can fly), Glow (can produce light), Wired (can go into electronics), Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Levitate (You are immune to Ground-type moves while you are airborne.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)

Minun are almost always found partnered with Plusle. Like Plusle, Minun enjoy cheering on their teammates, discharging electricity out of their palms to root for allies with electric pom-poms and shorting out their bodies to release showers of sparks. Unlike Plusle, though, Minun are more confrontational and rasher in tense situations. If their teams lose, Minun become upset and angry, even trying to shock members of the opposing team. Only Plusle can calm down their anger. In the wild, Minun will go out searching for Plusle to partner up with; Plusle usually stay with their siblings in safety rather than venture out into the wilderness. Minun have a fear of water and will hide under the eaves of houses when it rains to avoid getting wet.

Confuse Ray - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target becomes Confused. Electro Ball - Ranged(15ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. Electro Ball can only be used against targets slower than you. Hex - Ranged(15ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target is afflicted, Hex has 5d8 for damage instead.
Rotom (Mechanical Possession) 
Electric / (Variable) - (Variable) (Size), (Variable) (Weight) Hit Points: 30 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Flight, Glow, Zapper

Passives: Levitate

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)

Confuse Ray - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target becomes Confused.

Electro Ball - Ranged(15ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. Electro Ball can only be used against targets slower than you.

(Elemental Attack) - Mechanical Rotom will have an attack

Rotom are mischievous Pokťmon that enjoy playing

related to whatever machine they're inhabiting while using

pranks on others. They have the unique ability to possess their Wired passives. It may have an Ice-type attack while

electronic devices and use them as they please; oftentimes, inhabiting a fridge or icebox, or a Fire-type attack while in-

this means causing them to malfunction or act unexpected- habiting an oven or microwave. If Rotom leaves the machine,

ly to bewilder users. Their bodies are composed almost entirely of plasma, giving them their electrical abilities.

it loses the associated attack.

There has been much progress in the development of new and improved Rotom-efficient appliances. In battle, while their Electric-types remain constant throughout all of their

*** A Rotom that is possessing a machine's size and weight depends on the machine it's inhabiting.

forms, their other type can be influenced by the machine

they are possessing. While trained Rotom can possess electronics and leave them entirely unharmed, wild ones tend Biology: Egg Group - Amorphous, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, to short out circuits of devices they enter. They appear to Diet - Ergovore, Habitat - Urban Plants / Urban

have affinities for old televisions; they will briefly flash their Proficiencies: Electric / Ghost

maniacally grinning faces for just a split second before re-

/ Variable Type Lists (Rotom Mechanical)

turning to standard programming to frighten watchers.

227

Togedemaru 
Electric / Steel- Small (Size), Light (Weight)
Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7
Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 10 Special Attack: 4
Skills: Zapper (can produce electricity)
Passives: Defense Curl (+1 Defense), Iron Barbs (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, the attacker takes 4 damage.), Lightning Rod (Any foe's ranged Electric-type attacks within 25ft or any adjacent foe's Electric-type attacks are negated and drawn to you. Your Special Attack is +2 until the end of your next turn whenever you negate an Electric-type attack.), Sturdy (If you would be brought from Max HP to 0 or below, you are instead brought to 1 HP.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +5)
Rollout - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Rollout against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Rollout's damage.
Zing Zap - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Pin Missile - Ranged(10ft) Bug Attack: At-Will 1d4. Pin Missile has -2 during Accuracy Check. Pin Missile is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Togedemaru have triangular patches of long, needle-like

fur that can stand together on end like spikes. When in

danger, they can curl up into balls with their spikes raised

to defend themselves from attackers. These spikes also

help attract electricity during storms; the needle-like appendages on their heads, however, function much better as lightning rods for this purpose. They also help Togedemaru

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Fields / Forests / Urban Plants

stay balanced, much like tails. When a thunderstorm is ap- Proficiencies: Electric / Steel / Prickly

proaching, many Togedemaru will venture out into the

open with their fur bristled, waiting patiently to be struck

by bolts of lightning. They can also siphon electricity from

other Electric-types using their spikes. Togedemaru store

gathered electricity in electrical sacs within their bodies for

use when protecting themselves. While they can generate

their own electricity to a limited extent, the bulk of their

charge is gathered during lightning storms. Predators that

are foolish enough to attack curled-up Togedemaru will not

only be pierced by their fourteen sharp spikes, but also be

shocked as they let loose stored electricity. Togedemaru

are known to share electricity with one another by directly

shocking each other's lightning rods and charging each oth-

er's electrical sacs.

228

229

Cleffa / Clefairy / Clefable 

Cleffa

Fairy - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 3

Special Attack: 5

Skills: -

Passives: Charm (+1 Defense), Cute Charm (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Infatuate the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)
Pound - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Sweet Kiss - Melee Fairy Effect: 3/day. Sweet Kiss has -4 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.
Sing - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Sing has -8 during Accuracy Check. On hit, all targets fall Asleep.

Clefairy

Fairy - Medium (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Charm, Cosmic Power (+1 Defense, +1 Special Defense), Cute Charm, Magic Guard (Foes can only deal damage to you with attacks that deal damage. You are unaffected by damage from afflictions, coats, hazards, weather or any passives given by foes.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Encore - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. If the target can, it must use the last move it did for the next 3 rounds or until it no longer can.
Wake-Up Slap - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. If WakeUp Slap is used against a Sleeping target, Wake-Up Slap deals 5d8 for damage instead, then cures the target of Sleep. If you choose not to roll damage while using WakeUp Slap, you do not need to roll an Accuracy Check.
Body Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed. Body Slam can Paralyze Electric-types.

While their extraterrestrial origins are debatable, it is a fact that Cleffa numbers oddly increase on nights following meteor showers. On these nights, Cleffa can be seen dancing in rings as meteors streak across the sky. They dance until dawn and disappear quickly once the last meteor falls. They are almost never seen at any other time and seem to nourish themselves on morning dew that condenses during these rituals. It is said that seeing a ring of Cleffa dancing will bring good luck upon onlookers. Cleffa are drawn to Moon Stones and often hold them while dancing. However, they are more fascinated with rare Comet Shards. Trained Cleffa who come across them will attempt to hoard them, though their rarity makes collections of any more than a dozen unheard of. It is theorized that wild Cleffa colonies have stashes in the hundreds somewhere in the mountains.

230

Clefairy are mysterious Pokťmon. Often believed to have extraterrestrial origins, they make their earthly homes on mountains. Their habitats tend to have odd magnetic activity. Little is known about these elusive Pokťmon; however, they seem to be intelligent enough to form societies. They also very strongly connected to the moon. Clefairy mysteriously become more common during full moons as they come out of hiding and dance. They worship Moon Stones which trigger their evolution, and allegedly store moonlight in the wings on their backs to float in midair. Despite their rarity, their cute appearance and voice have made Clefairy popular symbols in media.

Clefable

Fairy - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Flight

Passives: Charm, Cosmic Power, Cute Charm, Friend

Guard (Allies within 25ft of you take -1d4 damage when at-

Clefable are almost as plentiful as their pre-evolutions

tacked.), Magic Guard

though this isn't saying much, considering their rarity. This

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)

is because of the strange link between the moon and Clefairy--somehow, there are always Moon Stones near them, triggering some of their evolutions. Clefable are extremely shy, hiding at the slightest hint of people. Their ears are very sensitive, sometimes able to hear a pin drop

Lucky Chant - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 3/day. Put a Lucky Coat on all allies and yourself. The Coat has the following ability: If you are hit by a Critical Hit, treat the hit as a regular successful hit. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

from 200 yards away. They avoid loud places by hiding in Healing Wish - Melee Psychic Effect: 1/day. Your HP is set

groups deep in secluded mountains. Clefable move very

to 0, then target ally is healed to Max HP and cured of any

lightly, almost as if bouncing in lower, moon-like gravity;

afflictions.

they are also able to walk on water in this way. On moonlit nights, they can rarely be seen walking towards secluded, deserted lakes; they are said to gaze at the moon. It is said

Metronome - Normal Effect: 3/day. Immediately use a random attack (non-Legendary).

seeing a pair of them is a sign of a happy marriage. Little is

known about how Clefable defend themselves; known for

their mystical powers, Clefable are capable of summoning a Biology: Egg Group - Fairy / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days,

completely random attack out of thin air by waggling their Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Caves / Mountains

fingers. Their affinity with Moon Stones is still present, and Evolution: Cleffa they can occasionally be seen holding them as they wander

Clefairy

Moon Stone Clefable

about.

Proficiencies: Fairy / Healer / Normal Block / Spellcraft

/ Weather / Weird / Winged (Clefable)

231

Flabťbť / Floette / Florges 

Flabťbť

Fairy - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Flower Bond (Flabťbť, Floette, and Florges bond with a flower throughout their lives. Different flowers change how they appear.), Hover (can hover), Sprouter (can manipulate plant life)

Passives: Flower Veil (You and your allied Grass-type's stats cannot be lowered by effects within 25ft of you.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +2) Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Vine Whip - Ranged(20ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 2d8. Fairy Wind - Ranged(20ft) Fairy Special Attack: At-Will 1d12.

Floette

Fairy - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Alluring (attracts others with their aroma), Flower Bond, Hover, Sprouter

Passives: Flower Veil, Symbiosis (You can pass held items to allies within 10ft as a free action.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +4, Effect +2)
Wish - Melee Normal Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or yourself. After the target acts during the next round, they are healed HP equal to half of the target's Max HP.
Magical Leaf - Ranged(25ft) Grass Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.
Aromatherapy - Melee Grass Effect: 3/day. Target an ally or yourself. Target is cured of all afflictions.

Flabťbť are some of the smallest and lightest Pokťmon in existence. They dwell in fields of wildflowers and in the flowerbeds of gardens. The minute Flabťbť are born, they search for a flower to hold onto. These Pokťmon appear to be able to distinguish between many different species of similar flowers, and even the flowers of a single plant. When they find a flower they like, they will grasp onto it tightly and never let go of it for the rest of their lives imbuing their life force into it. Flabťbť both live in and care for their flowers; somehow, they are able to channel energy from the flowers they hold both to sustain themselves and to harness into attacks. In turn, Flabťbť keep their flowers healthy and vibrant by providing them with the sunlight, water, and nutrients that they need. Their crowns are made of pollen, and possess healing properties. Flabťbť can sometimes be seen floating carefreely in the breeze.

232

Floette can be seen floating around flowerbeds and gardens. These Pokťmon become able to draw energy from all the blooms around them, not just the ones that they hold. In overgrown fields where flowers are allowed to grow freely, Floette are able to unleash surprisingly powerful attacks. While human urbanization has caused such areas to diminish, the construction of artificial gardens and flowerbeds have given Floette new places to dwell in. In return for the energy Floette pull out of flowers, they spend much of their time tending to nearby plants. They invest most of their energy into ensuring that all of the flowers around them bloom; when they come across a wilting flower, they will do everything in their power to restore its vibrancy. These Pokťmon are popular in gardens for this reason, where they can be seen caring for planted flowers. It is said that Floette can draw the most strength from flowers that are the most beautiful. When a flowerbed blooms, the inhabiting Floette will perform an intricate, elegant dance to celebrate. These Pokťmon will hold lifelong grudges against those that destroy their flowerbeds.

Florges
Fairy - Medium (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 15

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Alluring, Flower Bond, Hover, Sprouter

Passives: Flower Veil, Symbiosis

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)

Moonblast - Ranged(20ft) Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Petal Dance - Ranged(5ft burst) Grass Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Petal Dance is a two-turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.

Solar Beam - Ranged(30ft beam) Grass Special Attack: 1/

Florges represent the pinnacle of the mutualistic relationship between these Pokťmon and the flowers that they chose when young; the Pokťmon and the flower have become one upon evolution. Florges are the guardians of

day 5d12. Solar Beam is a two-turn move unless it is Sunny. On the first turn, do nothing. On the second turn or if it is Sunny, roll Solar Beam's Accuracy Check and damage.

beautiful, flower-filled meadows and gardens. They defend

their delicate flowerbeds not only from other Pokťmon, but also from natural disasters such as wildfires. They can live Biology: Egg Group - Fairy / Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, for centuries, dedicating their lives solely to single gardens. Diet - Phototroph, Habitat - Fields / Meadows

Florges spend much of their time tending to their beautiful Evolution: Flabťbť

Floette

Shiny Stone Florges

flowerbeds. Florges are so skilled in horticulture that many

people request their help in designing gardens. These

Proficiencies: Fairy / Grass / Floral

Pokťmon can summon powerful, yet hauntingly beautiful,

storms of petals in order to protect themselves and their

blooms.

233

Tinkatink / Tinkatuff / Tinkaton 

Tinkatink

Fairy / Steel - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 4

Skills: -

Passives: Baby-Doll Eyes (+1 Defense), Own Tempo (You are immune to being Confused)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +1, Effect +3)
Astonish - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Sweet Kiss - Melee Fairy Effect: 3/day. Sweet Kiss has -4 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.
Fairy Wind - Ranged(20ft) Fairy Special Attack: At-Will 1d12.

Tinkatuff

Fairy / Steel - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 5

Skills: -

Passives: Baby-Doll Eyes, Mold Breaker (Your attacks ignore any passives that would redirect, negate or weaken your attacks.), Own Tempo

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)

Rock Smash - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Brutal Swing - Melee(5ft burst) Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8.

Tinkatink make their homes in ruins and mountains where iron ore is abundant. They fashion small hammers out of metal that they use to defend themselves. Because they are weak, however, Tinkatink are unable to compete for prime material and have to make do with the scraps left behind by other Pokťmon. Furthermore, because of their vulnerability, Pokťmon that eat metal--most commonly Steel-types--often hound them and steal their weapons. Tinkatink constantly have to reforge their hammers as a result. Collecting scraps of iron and whatever other metals they can find, they will tirelessly work to improve the quality and durability of their weapons even if they end up stolen just days later. Tinkatink will even discard their own hammers if they perceive them to be of shoddy workmanship.

Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Slam has -2 during Accuracy Check.

234

Tinkatuff are no longer as helpless against marauding Steel-types as they were as Tinkatink. In comparison, Tinkatuff are much scrappier in nature and will actively stalk metal-bearing Pokťmon in order to harvest their resources. Pawniard and Bisharp packs are a common target due to the large number of metal blades that they possess. Due to the numerical advantage these packs have, Tinkatuff have to rely on surprise and wit to gain the upper hand. If they do manage to take down a Pawniard or Bisharp, however, they are rewarded with a large supply of high-quality metal with which to improve their hammers. To test the strength of their weapons, groups of Tinkatuff will smash their hammers against one another and see which one gives first. Tinkatuff value their metal so much that they will even sleep atop their stashes, making sure no other Pokťmon can steal it while they are slumbering.

Tinkaton

Fairy / Steel - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Strength (very strong)

Passives: Baby-Doll Eyes, Mold Breaker, Own Tempo, Pickpocket (When you are hit by a melee attack, you steal the offender's held item, if any.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Fake Out - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 2d6. Fake Out has Priority. Fake Out can only be used as your first action during an encounter. On hit, the target is Stunned.

Gigaton Hammer - Ranged(5ft burst) Steel Attack: 1/day 5d12.

Tinkaton are a menace to Steel-types everywhere. These Play Rough - Melee Fairy Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the Pokťmon are both highly intelligent and very bold. They will target's Attack is -1 for 10 mins. fearlessly go after metal-bearing Pokťmon much larger

than themselves, using well-crafted weapons and sharp wit to take them down. For instance, Tinkaton will smash rocks into the sky with their hammers to knock down flying Corviknight. Once the bird Pokťmon smash to the ground,

Biology: Egg Group - Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 13 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Badlands / Grasslands / Ruins

they are helpless against the follow-up attacks. Though their hammers weight over 200 lbs., Tinkaton can swing them around with ease to smash foes with crushing force. The windup for such devastating blows, however, takes

Evolution: Tinkatink

Tinkatuff

Tinkaton

Proficiencies: Fairy/ Steel / Bruiser (Tinkaton)

some time. Wild Tinkaton express great interest in artificial metal structures, and have been observed attempting to

replicate such constructions themselves.

235

Togepi / Togetic / Togekiss 

Togepi

Fairy - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 2

Special Attack: 4

Skills: -

Passives: Charm (+1 Defense), Super Luck (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20)
Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)
Sweet Kiss - Melee Fairy Effect: 3/day. Sweet Kiss has -4 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.
Yawn - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target falls Asleep after its next turn.
Encore - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. If the target can, it must use the last move it did for the next 3 rounds or until it no longer can.

Togetic

Fairy / Flying - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Charm, Super Luck

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +4, Effect +2)

Metronome - Normal Effect: 3/day. Immediately use a random attack (non-Legendary).

Wish - Melee Normal Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or yourself. After the target acts during the next round, they are healed HP equal to half of the target's Max HP.

Ancient Power - Ranged(10ft) Rock Special Attack: 1/day 2d8. On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour.

Togepi are often seen as symbols of good luck. Just being around them can make one feel joyful. Conversely, when surrounded by corrupted people or Pokťmon, they become weak due to the lack of good energy around them. Togepi are known for their low tolerance for hunger. If they become famished, they will cry loudly and incessantly until fed. After eating, they draw themselves entirely into their shells and take long naps. Upon hatching, Togepi view the first living things that they see as their mothers, regardless of species or gender; they will refuse to leave the sides of their parents no matter what. As a result, the majority of trained Togepi are either hatched from eggs or orphaned, since Togepi separated from their mothers will refuse to do anything, even intentionally starving themselves and crying until their parents find and feed them.

236

Togetic are viewed as signs of good fortune, believed to bring luck to anyone they approach. Togetic are also said to be drawn to those pure of heart, rewarding them with showers of joy dust; this dust is thought to bring happiness and prosperity to anyone it lands on. Since they obtain much of their livelihood from kind Pokťmon and people and are weakened from being around impure ones, Togetic fly around in search of pure-hearted beings, sharing their joy with them. They can fly for long periods of time without flapping their wings, appearing to levitate.

Togekiss

Togekiss are very rarely sighted in the wild. They are believed to only appear during peaceful times, avoiding periods of strife. Togekiss are said to shower blessings onto those who respect the rights of others and avoid needless conflict. These Pokťmon are highly intelligent and very in tune to the emotions of others. They are capable of recognizing the facial expressions and social cues of people and Pokťmon alike, and will react to them accordingly. In the past few decades or so, sightings of wild Togekiss have become even less frequent than they have been in the past. Whether this is indicative of the state of the world today or simply a coincidence is unknown.

Fairy / Flying - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 12

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 12

Skills: Flight

Passives: Charm, Super Luck

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +6, Effect +4)

Safeguard - Ranged(10ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Put a Safe Coat on all allies and yourself. The Coat has the following ability: You cannot become afflicted. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

Double Edge - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

Air Slash - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. Air Slash has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Biology: Egg Group - Fairy / Flying, Egg Hatch Rate - 4 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Forests

Evolution: Togepi

Togetic Shiny Stone Togekiss

Proficiencies: No moves from Any (Togepi) / Fairy / Flying (Togetic / Togekiss) / Psychic / Avian (Togetic / Togekiss) / Cutesy / Elemental Attack F (Togetic / Togekiss) / Winged (Togetic / Togekiss)

237

Fidough / Dachsbun 

Fidough

Fairy - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Tracker (can follow scents)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Own Tempo (You are immune to being Confused)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +1, Effect +3)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Lick - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d8. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Dachsbun
Fairy - Small (Size), Light (Weight)
Hit Points: 36 Defense: 13 Special Defense: 8
Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 10 Special Attack: 6
Skills: Alluring (attracts others with their aroma), Tracker
Passives: Growl, Tail Whip, Work Up (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Aroma Veil (You and your allies within 10ft of you are immune to the effects of the moves Heal Block, Taunt, Encore, and Disable and the passive Cursed Body.), Own Tempo, Well-Baked Body (You are immune to Fire-type attacks. When you are hit by Fire-type attacks, instead your Defense is +2 for 10 mins.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +5)
Play Rough - Melee Fairy Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Attack is -1 for 10 mins.
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Double Edge - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

Squishy Fidough are a valued companion for bakers and brewers alike. Their doughy skin is smooth and moist to the touch. They constantly waft a pleasant yeasty aroma wherever they go. Their bodies are in fact teeming with yeast, and they expel it with each breath they exhale. Humans have long valued this property of theirs, using them to ferment doughs, beverages, and all sorts of other foodstuffs. Specific lineages of Fidough are prized for their unique strains of yeast, which gourmands value for the special characteristics they grant to their products. Various breads, for instance, is said to differ in taste and texture in different parts of the world due to differences in the Fidough yeast used to leaven them. In warm weather, Fidough will expand as the yeast within them becomes active; many people find these "risen" Fidough quite cute. Conversely, in cold weather, they become lethargic as their yeast slow down their metabolisms.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Grasslands

Evolution: Fidough

Dachsbun

Proficiencies: Fairy / Fangs (Dachsbun)

238

Milcery have bodies made entirely of what appears to be

Daschsbun, develop a thin crust that darkens their color- cream. They can often be found in patisseries and ice

ation on their bodies. Additionally, their yeasty aromas gain cream parlors in cities, or in fields of fragrant flowers in the

toasty notes akin to baked bread. Not only is the smell

wild. Milcery love sweets and cream. They rarely eat

pleasant, it also facilitates the growth of wheat and other enough to make a dent in kitchen supplies, however, and it

grains. For this reason, Daschsbun have been an invaluable is a superstition amongst bakers that a visiting Milcery will

companion in agricultural communities for millennia. Even bring the patisserie success and fortune. If their pastries

in modern cities, bakeries will often have Daschsbun in and smell good enough to attract Milcery, after all, then they

around the storefronts to tantalize potential customers. In are surely good enough for customers. As Milcery move,

battle, Daschsbun have a curious resistance to Fire-type

they agitate their bodies and incorporate surrounding air.

attacks. When struck with intense heat, the moisture in

Eventually, when they have gained enough volume in this

their skin absorbs the heat and evaporates, hardening their manner, they will evolve. Milcery cream becomes infused

skin into hearty crusts. It then rehydrates and softens again with what the Pokťmon have recently eaten or been

afterwards, ready to absorb additional Fire-type moves.

around. When their aroma begins fragrant enough for

While they love baked treats, Daschsbun actually primarily trainers to smell it from afar, Milcery are approaching evo-

subsist on foods high in sugar; the yeast in their bodies

lution.

require it in order to thrive.

239

Milcery / Alcremie 

Milcery

Fairy - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Amorphous (can change their body into a liquid-like state), Hover (can hover)

Passives: Acid Armor (+2 Defense), Sweet Veil (You and your allies within 10ft of you are immune to being put to Sleep.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Draining Kiss - Melee Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Sweet Kiss - Melee Fairy Effect: 3/day. Sweet Kiss has -4 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.

Alcremie

Fairy - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 12

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Amorphous, Toppings (Depending on what kinds of treats were on top of Milcery and how it mixed itself up as it evolved, each Alcremie looks different)

Passives: Acid Armor, Aroma Veil (You and your allies within 10ft of you are immune to the effects of the moves Heal Block, Taunt, Encore, and Disable and the passive Cursed Body.), Sweet Veil

Alcremie body compositions shift when they evolve. Alcremie display all sorts of variations based on what they had eaten as Milcery. Pleasant vanilla, tart berry, earthy matcha, refreshing mint, sour lemon, salty cream, twotoned swirl, bitter caramel, and multicolor rainbow are all just a few examples of flavors Alcremie can have infused in their cream. These Pokťmon also adorn themselves with different sweets, further compounding their variation. Alcremie can secrete their flavored whipped cream and will give it to trainers that they trust, often placing them on complementary Berries. The cream is sweeter and richer when Alcremie are happy. Naturally, this makes them a valuable partner for pastry chefs, who incorporate their cream in all sorts of desserts. In the wild, Alcremie use their fragrant cream to defend themselves, throwing it at the faces of attackers. This either blinds them or forces them to ingest some; the cream and its fragrance has a strong soothing effect that can satiate chasing predators.

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)

Decorate - Melee Fairy Effect: 3/day. Target an ally or yourself. The target's Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, or Speed is raised +2 for five mins.
Recover - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP.

Biology: Egg Group - Fairy / Amorphous, Egg Hatch Rate 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Fields / Urban

Evolution: Milcery

Alcremie

Proficiencies: Fairy / Grass (Ranged Special Attacks)

Dazzling Gleam - Ranged(15ft, 10ft wave) Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 3d8.

This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2. 240

Snubbull / Granbull 

Snubbull

Fairy - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Tracker (can follow scents)

Passives: Charm (+1 Defense), Run Away (+1 Speed)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Lick - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d8. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Headbutt - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Snubbull are popular pets and more often found in home than in the wild. Snubbull are known to bare their fangs often. However, this in fact appears to be their instinctive reaction to a variety of different stimuli--fear and aggression, but also embarrassment, boredom, and general discomfort. Unfortunately for Snubbull, though, their expressions often drive others away from them, leaving them sad and dejected. Snubbull are affectionate and playful, which is why they are such popular pets. They are also easily scared or bullied; though they may bare their fangs to scare foes, they will flee and cower if they remain undeterred. Snubbull have keen senses of both smell and hearing; they often use these skills to track down gifts for their owners, ranging from food scraps to smaller Pokťmon that they can pull with their mouths. Snubbull are heavy sleepers, dozing for twelve hours each day.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Urban

Evolution: Snubbull

Granbull

Proficiencies: Fairy / Bruiser (Granbull) / Elemental Attack EF / Fangs

Granbull

Fairy - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Tracker

Passives: Intimidate (+1 Defense), Quick Feet (While afflicted, your Speed is +2.), Rattled (When a foe hits you with a Bug-type, Ghost-type, or Dark-type attack, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins. This can stack.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Take Down - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Outrage - Melee Dragon Attack: 1/day 5d12. Outrage is a two-turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.

241

Granbull threaten foes by opening their mouths wide

Spritzee flutter around dense woodlands, feeding on a

and baring their fangs, which is enough to send most foes variety of foodstuffs. While their main diets consist of plant

fleeing in fear. However, if the confrontation continues,

products like Berries, seeds, and flower nectar, they will

they will cower and run away. If cornered, rather than

also scavenge rotting carrion; small flocks of these

attacking, they will simply flail their limbs about wildly. They Pokťmon have been known to reduce whole bodies to piles

avoid actual fighting unless absolutely necessary. Their

of bones in single feeding sessions. Spritzee also

bites, however, are in fact extremely powerful, strong

sometimes venture out into open meadows or even rural

enough to crush stone. There is one situation, though,

human settlements if food is plentiful in those areas. They

where Granbull will attack ferociously: when their loved

are famous for being able to emit a wide variety of smells

ones are threatened. If their offspring, friends, or other that based on their diet, storing aromatic compounds in special

Granbull care for are threatened, they will attack in blind scent pouches. These can range from pleasant floral scents

rages against the offenders. This curious aspect of their

to disgusting rotten odors. They are thought to use these

personalities--docile unless they sense threats--make them tantalizing smells to attract small Bug-type prey.

great guards within domestic homes. However, they are far

less useful when defending properties, as they will avoid

conflict if no lives are at stake. Still, their loyalty makes

them popular pets. Their fangs are so heavy that they can

sometimes be seen with their heads leaned over from the

sheer weight of their jaws. Conversely, Granbull can also be

seen tilting their heads backwards to counteract this

weight.

242

Spritzee / Aromatisse 

Spritzee

Fairy - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Calm Mind (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense), Healer (After acting, you may roll 1d20. On 16 or higher, any adjacent allies are cured of all afflictions.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +1)

Peck - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Fairy Wind - Ranged(20ft) Fairy Special Attack: At-Will 1d12.

Aromatisse consume a variety of different substances and store them within their bodies. Their vast diets include normal edibles like fruits and Berries, odder foods like carrion and bizarre choices like soap and rotting garbage. These Pokťmon then mix particular substances to create scents; each individual Aromatisse has its own unique aroma that is used to identify it amongst its peers. This smell can be overpowering to those with sensitive noses and companions of these Pokťmon may find their olfactory senses dulled over time. Aromatisse devise new scents by mixing different substances, with varying results. In battle, these Pokťmon emit a number of differing odors to see which one their opponents despise or love the most before attempting to overwhelm their senses by unleashing a saturated cloud of that aroma. Sometimes, their clouds can cause watery eyes, choking, and even fainting due to their sheer, overpowering intensity. They can also emit energizing and calming odors to bolster their allies in combat.

Sweet Kiss - Melee Fairy Effect: 3/day. Sweet Kiss has -4 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.

Aromatisse

Fairy - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Alluring (attracts others with their aroma), Repulsive (repels others with a foul smell)

Passives: Calm Mind, Charm (+1 Defense), Aroma Veil (You and your allies within 10ft of you are immune to the effects of the moves Heal Block, Taunt, Encore, and Disable and the passive Cursed Body.), Healer

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +1)

Attract - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Infatuated with you.

Biology: Egg Group - Fairy / Flying, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Meadows / Woodlands

Moonblast - Ranged(20ft) Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Evolution: Spritzee

Aromatisse

Proficiencies: Fairy / Psychic / Avian / Elemental Attack E / Healer

Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

243

Swirlix / Slurpuff 

Swirlix

Fairy - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Alluring (attracts others with their aroma), Hover (can hover), Threaded (can move around with vines)

Passives: Cotton Spore (+2 Speed), Sweet Veil (You and your allies within 10ft of you are immune to being put to Sleep.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Fairy Wind - Ranged(20ft) Fairy Special Attack: At-Will 1d12.

Aromatherapy - Melee Grass Effect: 3/day. Target an ally or yourself. Target is cured of all afflictions.

Slurpuff

Fairy - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Alluring
Passives: Cotton Guard (+3 Defense), Cotton Spore, Sweet Veil
Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +4)
Draining Kiss - Melee Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Energy Ball - Ranged(20ft) Grass Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Play Rough - Melee Fairy Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Swirlix are adapted to consume an incredibly high amount of glucose and other sugars, and as such only eat sugary foods like candies and fruits. They consume so much sugar--up to their own body weights each day--that their bodies have to excrete the excess into their fur as syrupy white strands that renders them always sticky. These Pokťmon shed their sugary fur relatively often in small clumps held together by this syrup-like substance. Swirlix will also spit out these syrupy strands to entangle and slow predators. Swirlix are able to draw their feet into the fur of their bodies. These Pokťmon used to primarily live in woodlands and meadows, where they would feed on fruits, flower nectar, and occasionally honey. In modern times, however, the introduction of mass-produced candy has caused these Pokťmon to migrate to urban areas in record numbers. Swirlix that do not consume enough sugar each day will become very irritable and lethargic, a far cry from their normal personalities.

Biology: Egg Group - Fairy / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Meadows / Woodlands

Evolution: Swirlix

Slurpuff

Proficiencies: Fairy / Grass (Ranged Special Attacks) / Elemental Attack EF

244

Comfey 

Fairy - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Hover (can hover)

Passives: Growth (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Flower Veil (You and your allied Grass-type's stats cannot be lowered by effects within 25ft of you.), Natural Cure (Whenever returned to a Poke Ball, you are cured of any afflictions.), Triage (Any moves you know that can heal have Priority.)

Slurpuff consume just as much sugar as their weights. Urban individuals have been known to eat sugar cubes by the dozens and directly drink syrups that they find in stores, using their long tongues to reach them. Their fluff contains a lot of air, making it much lighter than it looks. Slurpuff have such incredibly acute senses of smell tuned specifically to sweets that they are able to sniff out a cube of sugar in a garbage dump. Slurpuff also have the ability to adjust the sensitivities of various olfactory receptors so that they won't be overwhelmed by strong scents. Slurpuff are today most often seen with chefs helping bake and eat pastries, where both their senses of smell can be utilized and their sweet teeth be satisfied.

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +5)
Vine Whip - Ranged(20ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 2d8.
Floral Healing - Melee Fairy Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or yourself. The target is healed HP equal to half of the target's Max HP. If you are within Grassy Terrain, the target is healed HP equal to 3/4ths of the target's Max HP instead.
Petal Dance - Ranged(5ft burst) Grass Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Petal Dance is a two-turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.

Biology: Egg Group - Grass / Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Meadows
Proficiencies: Fairy / Grass / Floral / Healer

Comfey are popular Pokťmon for their rejuvenating and revitalizing abilities. They can even be found in hospitals and Pokťmon Centers. Comfey can grow thin vines from their bodies; these vines are detachable, but they ferry nutrients within them as long as they are intact. Comfey pick flowers and attach them to their vines, keeping them fresh and vibrant thanks to this flow of nutrients. Comfey also spread a sticky oil along their rings of flowers to enhance their scents and adhere them to their vines. The aromas wafting from their blooms can heal and comfort those around them. Comfey give their flower rings to those that they like, blessing them with good health. The vines keep the flowers alive for quite a long time. When endangered, they will toss their rings at foes to distract them as they flee. Sometimes, their attackers are so calmed by the scent that they do not even bother giving chase. Comfey feel barren without their flowers, however, and will quickly return to collecting more after tossing their rings.
245

Machop / Machoke / Machamp 

Machop

Fighting - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 4

Skills: -

Passives: Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Leer (+1 Attack), Guts (While afflicted, your Attack is +2.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Low Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d10. Low Kick can only target heavier targets.
Karate Chop - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Karate Chop is a critical hit.
Foresight - Self Normal Effect: At-Will. You can hit Ghosttypes with Normal and Fighting type moves as if they are not immune to those types of attacks for two mins.

Machoke

Fighting - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight) Hit Points: 48 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Strength (very strong)

Passives: Bulk Up (+1 Attack, +1 Defense), Focus Energy, Leer, Guts, Steadfast (When you are Stunned, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Seismic Toss - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 25. Do not add bonuses of any kind to this damage.
Revenge - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. If you were attacked by the target this round, use 3d12 for damage instead.
Knock Off - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target drops any held items or weapons.

Making their homes in mountains, these pint-sized powerhouses can toss a boulder with ease. Machop are determined Pokťmon that are never satisfied with the amount of effort they are exerting. Their muscles never tire or cramp, so they can continue training and lifting almost indefinitely. Machop practice many styles of martial arts that they develop themselves. Using the mountainous terrains in which they dwell to their advantages, they are often seen practicing by hurling boulders for fun. The majority of their body composition is pure muscle, allowing them to perform these amazing feats of strength. They can throw powerful punches and kicks thanks to their constant and relentless training, allowing them to utilize many forms of martial arts as they spar with each other.

246

Machoke make their homes in mountains, but many also spend some of their time in urban areas helping with heavy lifting in construction sites, volunteering to help in order to train themselves. Their belts regulate the Pokťmon's powers and restrain them to nonlethal levels. Machoke have incredible stamina, not tiring even when doing the most strenuous of activities. They are always focused in battle, trying to get the most out of their training sessions. Machoke muscles are as hard as stone; they grow after every battle. These Pokťmon enjoy helping people and other Pokťmon lift heavy objects, as these tasks are great training for the Machoke themselves. When their services are not required, they will return to the mountains to continue lifting and training themselves to become even stronger.

Machamp

Fighting - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 15

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Strength

Passives: Bulk Up, Focus Energy, Leer, Guts, No Guard (You cannot miss your attacks, and attacks made against you cannot miss.), Steadfast

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Machamp are tremendously powerful Pokťmon. They use a variety of fighting techniques to pummel their opponents, most of which involve all four of their limbs. For example, they may use three of their arms to hold down foes while using the fourth to deliver a punch strong enough to knock them out. Alternatively, they may instead execute a different move with each of their limbs--for example, an uppercut, a hook, a straight, and a karate chop all simultaneously with their four limbs. They can deliver swift, endless volleys of punches to relentlessly pummel down opponents. There is even a special name for a complex grab these Pokťmon perform using all four of their arms: the Machamp special. Machamp love challenges, and will only fight harder when faced against strong opponents. However, they are terrible at delicate, precise work; their arms get jumbled together when attempting to manage fine details, and they will often end up destroying whatever they were trying to work with in the first place.

Strength - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target is moved 15ft away from you.
Submission - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.
Cross Chop - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. Cross Chop has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, Cross Chop is a critical hit.

Biology: Egg Group - Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Caves / Mountains

Evolution: Machop

Machoke

Machamp

Proficiencies: Fighting / Bruiser / Elemental Attack (F) / Martial / Stampeding (Machamp)

This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2. 247

Mankey / Primeape / Annihilape 

Mankey

Fighting - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain)

Passives: Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Leer (+1 Attack), Vital Spirit (You are immune to being put to Sleep.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Karate Chop - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Karate Chop is a critical hit.
Pursuit - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d6. Pursuit deals +6 damage to a target if they ended their turn further away from you during the start of their turn.
Swagger - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.
Primeape
Fighting - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 42 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 7
Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 13 Special Attack: 6
Skills: Climber
Passives: Focus Energy, Screech (+2 Attack), Anger Point (When hit by a critical hit, raise Attack +6 for 10 mins.), Vital Spirit
Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +5)
Rage - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.
Cross Chop - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. Cross Chop has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, Cross Chop is a critical hit.
Punishment - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 2d10. Punishment deals an additional 1d10 damage for each Stat Passive the target has.

Mankey are known for their incredibly short tempers. Even the slightest provocation can send them into fits of rage. Their bodies shudder uncontrollably and their nostrils flare up right before they strike. Then, they launch relentless flurries of attacks at their foes before they even get a chance to retaliate or escape. Despite their temperaments, Mankey are very social Pokťmon that live in groups in the treetops. If one Mankey is angered, the entire colony will attack. In their huge frenzies, they are unable to tell friend from foe and may even attack one another, becoming even angrier. They are very agile creatures, able to swing in the trees to chase foes. If they lose track of their colonies, they will be infuriated by their own loneliness and attack everything they see. They may pass out from their tantrums, but be so angry in their dreams that they reawaken, and then become further enraged by the interruption.

248

Many people consider Primeape wrath in its physical form. Wild individuals will become uncontrollably angry if they even sense someone might be looking at them. Running from one will initiate a chase. Primeape will not give up on their targets, chasing them relentlessly and channeling all of their efforts into pursuing their foes until they collapse from exhaustion. They will never forget the face of a foe that angers them, even after beating them down. When enraged, their bodies redirect blood from their brains to their muscles, increasing their strength and endurance, but also clouding their thoughts. This immediate arousal appears to be an instinctual response; even Primeape awoken from sleep will chase offenders, lethargically but still unyieldingly. Their blood vessels are in fact stronger than those of other Pokťmon, allowing them to withstand higher blood pressures without bursting. To the surprise of many, Primeape are exclusively herbivores.

Annihilape

Fighting / Ghost - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 66 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 14

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Climber, Strength (very strong)

Passives: Focus Energy, Screech, Anger Point, Defiant (If a foe lowers any of your stats, you have +2 Attack until your lowered stats are returned to normal.), Vital Spirit

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)

Rage Fist - Melee Ghost Attack: 3/day 1d8. Rage Fist deals +1d8 damage for each time you have been hit during this encounter by an attack that dealt damage (max +7d8).

These Primeape evolve into Annihilape, whose fury is no longer bound by their physical bodies are so filled with rage that even death will not release them from their anger.

Stomping Tantrum - Melee Ground Attack: 1/day 3d12. If you missed with your last attack during the last round, Stomping Tantrum has 5d12 for damage instead.

Ironically, Annihilape seem much calmer than Primeape

Outrage - Melee Dragon Attack: 1/day 5d12. Outrage is a

because they have accepted anger as a fundamental part two-turn move. On each turn, move to the closest charac-

of their beings, and as such can function without it clouding ter within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's

their thoughts. They can channel their rage to empower

Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your sec-

their attacks. A well-placed strike from an Annihilape can ond turn you are Confused.

shatter an opponent's psyche by transmitting an over-

whelming sense of pent-up anger. It is said that Annihilape

are able to achieve states of fury impossible in all other

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate -

Pokťmon because they cannot die from the emotional ex- 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Forests / Jungles /

treme. In fact, according to legend, Annihilape will only ever Mountains

pass on if they manage to calm down, as they are powered

solely by their inability to find true peace in the afterlife.

Evolution: Mankey

Primeape

Annihilape

Proficiencies: Fighting / Ghost (Melee attacks) (Annihilape) / Bruiser / Elemental Attack E

249

Timburr / Gurdurr / Conkeldurr 

Timburr

Fighting - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 3

Skills: -

Passives: Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Leer (+1 Attack), Guts (While afflicted, your Attack is +2.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +1, Effect +2)

Pound - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Low Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d10. Low Kick can only target heavier targets.

Rock Throw - Ranged(20ft) Rock Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Gurdurr

Fighting - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Strength (very strong)

Passives: Bulk Up (+1 Attack, +1 Defense), Focus Energy, Leer, Guts, Sheer Force (Your attacks that have additional effects that affect the target may deal +4 damage, but will not have those additional effects.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Chip Away - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. Chip Away has +2 on Accuracy Check if used against a target with a Defense or Special Defense raising passive.
Rock Slide - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Rock Attack: 1/day 5d12. Rock Slide has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Timburr are common sights in towns and cities, often seen working on construction sites alongside human builders. In the wild, Timburr are usually found in forests and wooded mountains. They use their strength to break down trees into more manageable planks and logs, which they in turn use to construct temporary shelters. Timburr are constantly looking for ways to improve the strength and stability of their homes. Every morning, they tear down the homes they built the day before to salvage materials for constructing new shelters, experimenting with different techniques and designs. This often leads to the creation of very strange-looking shelters, some of which are stable and some of which are not. It is said that these Pokťmon enjoy building so much that they throw tantrums when unexpected rain halts their projects for the day. When Timburr are capable of lifting whole logs three times their size without having to splinter them into smaller pieces, they are close to evolution. Wild Timburr are known to visit human cities to examine the architecture of urban buildings; they will later attempt to imitate the designs they see in their own structures.

Dynamic Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. Dynamic Punch has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.

250

Gurdurr begin to use a wider variety of materials in their constructions, including scrap metal and iron they find unattended near human settlements and mountains. Gurdurr are often seen near construction sites helping workers build; they seem to prefer working alongside humans to working alone, possibly because of the plentiful resources they gain access to by doing so. These Pokťmon are often seen carrying steel beams as signs of strength, though they will carry just about anything heavy to display their power. When not building, Gurdurr will hold their beams over their heads in order to work on their strength and endurance. When tearing down buildings, Gurdurr will swing their heavy beams to pulverize them, often rendering the remains unsalvageable in the process. They are generally more suited at destruction rather than construction, though they perform their demolitions with skill and pride.

Conkeldurr

Fighting - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 66 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 16

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Strength

Passives: Bulk Up, Focus Energy, Leer, Guts, Iron Fist (Your punching attacks deal +4 damage.), Sheer Force

Moves (Attack +8, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Hammer Arm - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Stone Edge - Ranged(25ft) Rock Attack: 1/day 5d12. Stone

Conkeldurr are rarities in the wild; only the strongest, oldest Gurdurr can evolve into them. An average

Edge has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Stone Edge is a critical hit.

Conkeldurr can mix a stronger concrete from natural mate- Superpower - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit,

rials than modern commercial brands. Their upper bodies your Attack and Defense is -2 for 10 mins.

are so massive that they have trouble staying upright, rely-

ing on their concrete pillars to stand up. Despite this,

Conkeldurr are incredibly powerful and sturdy. In addition to their strength, they are also very knowledgeable in the fields of building and architecture. These Pokťmon are em-

Biology: Egg Group - Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Mountains

ployed at construction sites not to build, but rather to as- Evolution: Timburr

Gurdurr

Conkeldurr

sess the stability and integrity of structures. In combat, instead of relying on brute force to overpower opponents, Conkeldurr spin their pillars at high speeds and smash

Proficiencies: Fighting / Rock / Martial (No Kicks) / Stampeding (Conkeldurr)

them into opponents; the centrifugal force of the pillars

enables them to strike with immense power. Conkeldurr

can also swing their pillars about freely to attack, though

doing so may occasionally cause them to lose balance. In

dire situations, they will throw their pillars aside to pummel

their foes with their fists, though they have great difficulty

remaining upright while doing so.

251

Clobbopus / Grapploct 

Clobbopus

Fighting - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Bulk Up (+1 Attack, +1 Defense), Leer (+1 Attack), Limber (You are immune to being Paralyzed.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)
Rock Smash - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Bind - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 physical damage on its turns.
Detect - SelfFighting Effect: 1/day. Detect is used as a Reaction. When you would be hit by a move, use Detect to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack.

Grapploct

Fighting - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 14

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Gilled, Swimmer

Passives: Bulk Up, Leer, Limber, Technician (When rolling damage, replace any rolled 1s or 2s with 3.)

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Taunt - Ranged(20ft) Dark Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target may only use attacks that target you or your allies for 1 min.

Clobbopus spend most of their time on the sea floor wandering about. They are curious creatures who will approach new things without fear. To investigate foreign objects, they will punch them with their tentacles; by doing so, they can test the objects' strength, durability, texture, and many other characteristics. This allows them to adopt new punching techniques for dealing with different situations. Clobbopus will study inanimate and animate things indiscriminately, and it is common to see them accidentally pick fights with ornery Pokťmon by punching them. Clobbopus can regrow their tentacles quickly, though, so even nasty injuries rarely hold them back for long. Clobbopus are amphibious and will venture onto land to hunt and explore. They will throw tantrums if unable to punch what they want to. Still, they have long memories and will remember not to hit things that have hurt them in the past.

Reversal - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 1d10. If you are at less than half of your Max HP, Reversal has 1d20 for damage instead. If you are at less than 5 HP, Reversal has 5d12 for damage instead.
Submission - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Carnivore, Habitat - Beaches / Ocean / Polar

Evolution: Clobbopus

Grapploct

Proficiencies: Fighting / Water/ Martial (No Kicks)

252

Grapploct have bodies of almost pure muscle, lending

Crabrawler are feisty, scrappy creatures that converse

both their punches and grappling moves great strength. with their fists. They use their powerful claws to shield their

They train rigorously on the sea floor by smashing blocks of vulnerable faces and stomachs in battle as they wait for

stone and ice. Then, they will venture onto land in search of their opponents to leave openings for them to strike. They

worthy foes. Once a Grapploct sights a potential challenger, also use these claws to strike trees and knock down Ber-

it will taunt the opponent from afar to get them to come ries. Crabrawler will compete beneath trees for choice fruit

closer. Once they draw near, the duel begins. Regardless of in a manner quite similar to two boxers in a ring. Crabrawl-

the battle's outcome, Grapploct will return to the sea after er have strong competitive spirits and despise losing; a de-

fighting to recuperate. These Pokťmon frown upon the use feated one will foam at the mouth as it faints. Bizarrely,

of weapons in combat and will turn down challengers that these Pokťmon have a strong affinity for heights. They will

wield them unless the weapons are thrown aside. Grap- climb trees and buildings in order to reach the highest

ploct become quite restless if unable to fight for extended points in an area; they are even known to climb tall people.

periods of time, and may even try to pick fights with Pokť- They will cling on tightly to these places once they reach

mon underwater if they cannot find any opponents on

them, punching those that try to pry them away. Because

land; this usually does not go well for them, as Grapploct of their competitiveness, only a single Crabrawler can usu-

train primarily for terrestrial duels.

ally remain at a local high point at a given point in time.

Crabrawler use their claws so much that they sometimes

fall off from eventual wear and tear. Claws regrow in the

weeks following.

253

Crabrawler / Crabominable 

Crabrawler

Fighting - Medium (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Iron Fist (Your punching attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Pursuit - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d6. Pursuit deals +6 damage to a target if they ended their turn further away from you during the start of their turn.

Bubble Beam - Ranged(20ft beam) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Power-Up Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.

Crabominable

Fighting / Ice - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 14

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Climber, Freezer (can create ice)

Passives: Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Leer, Anger Point (When hit by a critical hit, raise Attack +6 for 10 mins.), Hyper Cutter (Your Attack cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.), Iron Fist

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Ice Punch - Melee Ice Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.
Dizzy Punch - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Ice Hammer - Melee Ice Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Crabrawler that reach snowy summits during their climbing will eventually evolve into Crabominable. They have thick fur to insulate themselves from the bitter cold. Berries and other plant life are very scarce at such altitudes, so Crabominable instead feed on low-growing moss and lichens. They use their powerful claws to smash through layers of hard permafrost and access the soil beneath. Though predators are scarce where they dwell, Crabominable can lop off and throw their claws to distract predators and defend themselves. The claws will grow back in just about a week's time. Their claws also stay quite cold even outside of their snowy environments, allowing them to deliver icy blows wherever they are. Crabominable seem to oddly throw punches about as they travel, punching what seems to be nothing almost constantly. It is said many unexplained noises heard by mountain hikers can be attributed to Crabominable punching blindly in blizzards.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 3 / Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Beaches / Mountains

Evolution: Crabrawler

Ice Stone Crabominable

Proficiencies: Fighting / Ice (Crabominable) / Water / Bruiser

254

Farfetch'd (Massive Leeks) / Sirfetch'd 

Farfetch'd (Massive Leeks)

Fighting - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 6

Skills: -

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Swords Dance (+2 Attack), Steadfast (When you are Stunned, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)
Rock Smash - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Brutal Swing - Melee(5ft burst) Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8.
Detect - Self Fighting Effect: 1/day. Detect is used as a Reaction. When you would be hit by a move, use Detect to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack.

Sirfetch'd

Where wild leeks grow much larger and thicker than they do in other parts of the world, the Farfetch'd that wield these leeks evolved to become bulky in order to handle them properly. These Farfetch'd have lost the ability to fly due to their heavy leeks weighing them down. However, they make up for this by expertly sporting their leeks in combat to defend themselves. Farfetch'd wield their leeks like lances and can fend off attackers with ease. They can be seen sparring with one another to practice their skills, and are particularly fond of one-on-one duels.

Biology: Egg Group - Flying / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Grasslands

Evolution: Farfetch'd

Sirfetch'd

Proficiencies: Fighting / Grass (Melee Attacks / Sirfetch'd) / Avian / Slashing / Winged

Fighting - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 16

Special Attack: 7

Skills: -

Passives: Agility, Swords Dance, Scrappy (Your Normaltype and Fighting-type attacks can hit Ghost-type targets.), Steadfast

Moves (Attack +8, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Meteor Assault - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, the target is Stunned. This move has a Recharge turn.

Leaf Blade - Melee Grass Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Leaf Blade is a critical hit.

Brave Bird - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

Evolution Shift compatible with Farfetch'd (507)
255

Sirfetch'd are famous for being noble and chivalrous, even being a symbol of knighthood in some places. Sirfetch'd will strive to engage only in fair battles; they even may discard one or both of their weapons when facing a weak opponent in order to level the playing field. Sirfetch'd have broken off the tops of their leafy leeks to use as a shield while wielding the pointed ends of their stalks as lances. These two halves of a whole are their most prized possessions in the world, and Sirfetch'd care for them religiously. When their weapons finally wilt after many decades, Sirfetch'd will retire from combat rather than find

Makuhita are determined Pokťmon; they will fight until their bodies give. Even then, they strive to become strong enough to defeat those that had beaten them. Makuhita learn from their errors; each time they fall, they store energy for evolution and get right back up. They prize their might and work hard to maintain it. They make sure to keep balanced diets with enough calories to for their training and always gets enough sleep to be well-rested. They toughen their bodies by slamming into rocks and trees. Snapped trunks can be found near their training grounds. Distant rumbling in caves is often the sound of Makuhita toughening themselves on stone. Thanks to their practice, their bodies can sustain many attacks. As they grow stronger, they will begin eating more to store energy before evolution. They begin practice in groups in the morning, eat

new leeks. During famines, Sirfetch'd were said to share their leeks and shield with starving peasants to nourish them, even knowing that doing so would mean they would never be able to fight again.

lunch and nap in the afternoon, and then resume training in the evening.

256

Makuhita / Hariyama 

Makuhita

Fighting - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 3 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 2

Skills: -

Passives: Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Guts (While afflicted, your Attack is +2.)
Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +1, Effect +1)
Force Palm - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Whirlwind - Ranged(20ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, moves the target 60ft away.
Knock Off - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target drops any held items or weapons.

Most of the fat that appears to be covering the bodies of Hariyama is actually muscle. When they flex, their torsos become as hard as rock. They specialize in open-palm thrusts that can snap telephone poles in two with one blow. They stomp their feet alternatingly before matches to store power. In particular, they enjoy sparring with large Pokťmon and enjoy showing their power by knocking down heavy objects. By clapping their two hands together around the heads of foes, Hariyama can easily disorient their opponents and leave them wide open to future attacks. Though most famous for their size and bulk, smaller Hariyama can be just as effective fighters by relying more heavily on speed and agility. Older Hariyama retain their immense strength, but prefer to train young Makuhita instead of showing off. These Pokťmon have strong senses of etiquette, both in and out of combat, and will congratulate their opponents for a battle well-fought regardless of the outcome.

Hariyama

Fighting - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 84 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Strength (very strong)

Passives: Focus Energy, Guts, Sheer Force (Your attacks that have additional effects that affect the target may deal +4 damage, but will not have those additional effects.), Thick Fat (You take -4 damage from Fire-type attacks and Ice-type attacks.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Belly Drum - Self Normal Effect: 3/day. You lose HP equal to half of your Max HP, then your Attack is +6 for 10 mins.
Seismic Toss - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 25. Do not add bonuses of any kind to this damage.

Biology: Egg Group - Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Mountains

Close Combat - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Defense and Special Defense are -2 for 10 mins.

Evolution: Makuhita

Hariyama

Proficiencies: Fighting / Bruiser / Stampeding (Hariyama)

257

Meditite / Medicham 

Meditite

Fighting / Psychic - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 18 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)

Passives: Calm Mind (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense), Pure Power (+6 Attack)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)

Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Force Palm - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Endure - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Endure is used as a Reaction. If you would be hit by an attack that would knock you out, use Endure to instead be left with 1 HP.

Medicham

Fighting / Psychic - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Telekinetic , Telepath (can read minds)

Passives: Calm Mind, Pure Power, Telepathy (Your allies within 25ft do not harm you when the ally is using attacks that have an area of effect.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)
Mind Reader - Ranged(40ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. Mind Reader can't miss. Your next attack against the same target will not miss.
High Jump Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. High Jump Kick has -2 during Accuracy Check. If you miss, you lose HP equal to half of your Max HP.
Recover - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP.

Meditite rigorously train their bodies and minds every day on quiet mountains. As part of their training, they impose strict fasts on themselves, eating only a single berry each day in order to temper their spirits and sharpen their minds. Meditite also practice yoga daily, improving both their physical and mental flexibility. They focus on the art of meditation, honing their control over their own minds and bodies. By concentrating very intensely while clearing their minds of all other thoughts, they strengthen their inner power. However, they have not yet perfected this technique, often losing focus and having to start over again. Because of this, their training sessions may last for days. On rare occasions when Meditite are particularly focused, they may even levitate above the ground for several seconds. In battle, their keen senses allow them to deftly avoid lethal attacks.

Biology: Egg Group - Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Fields / Mountains

Evolution: Meditite

Medicham

Proficiencies: Fighting / Psychic / Martial

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 258

Medicham are gifted with a sixth sense thanks to their strict meditation that is said to allow them to see the auras surrounding others and sense their thoughts. They fast to heighten this ability, which grows stronger the more restraint they exert. By entering trancelike states of deep meditation, they can go for over a month without eating anything at all. Medicham can also harness psychokinetic powers, aiding them in predicting the moves of opponents. In battle, they deftly and gracefully leap around the field, evading attacks while retaliating in the same motions. Medicham also have the ability to remain perfectly still through meditation, blending in seamlessly with their surroundings. While they are meditating, virtually nothing is able to break their concentration; even when attacked, they can subconsciously defend themselves with their psychokinetic powers without losing focus. Medicham are often found meditating under trees on mountains. They can be very difficult to spot, however, given their ability to camouflage into their environments.

Mienfoo attack with flurries of quick, constant blows. They can also unsheathe sharp claws from their paws to lacerate foes. These Pokťmon excel in executing precise combos of hits to take down enemies before they even have a chance to react. Though each individual strike in a chain of attacks is weak on its own, the combined damage from such combos altogether is enough to overwhelm most opponents. Mienfoo rely heavily on maintaining concentration in order to properly execute their attacks. When particularly focused, the combos of these Pokťmon become more accurate and powerful. Conversely, however, an inattentive Mienfoo will often miss blows and fail to hit its opponents in critical areas. Mienfoo can be distracted by a variety of different stimuli, including loud noises, sudden and unexpected movements, or even the smell of food when hungry. They will become angry when disturbed, but this irritation often further disrupts their focus. These Pokťmon train in packs on high mountains where such disturbances are rare in order to hone their concentration, where they can be spotted slowly transitioning between a series of poses. There are slight differences in fighting style between Mienfoo packs.

259

Mienfoo / Mienshao 

Mienfoo

Fighting - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 7

Skills: -

Passives: Calm Mind (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense), Meditate (+1 Attack), Inner Focus (You are immune to being Stunned.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Fake Out - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 2d6. Fake Out has Priority. Fake Out can only be used as your first action during an encounter. On hit, the target is Stunned.

Swift - Ranged(20ft) Normal Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.

Force Palm - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Mienshao
Fighting - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 42 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 7
Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 14 Special Attack: 11
Skills: -
Passives: Calm Mind, Meditate, Inner Focus, Reckless (Your attacks that damage yourself on hit, deal +4 damage.), Regenerator (When returned to a Poke Ball, you recover to Max HP after being stored for 1 hour.)
Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)
Drain Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Jump Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d10. Jump Kick has -2 during Accuracy Check. If you miss, you lose HP equal to half of your Max HP.
Bounce - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Bounce is a twoturn move. On the first turn, raise yourself 40 ft into the air. On the second turn, return to the ground, move up to twice your movement rate, then you may roll Bounce's Accuracy Check and damage. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Mienshao are peaceful Pokťmon that prefer to avoid conflict whenever possible. However, they are incredibly skilled fighters that can take down most foes with ease. Mienshao fight using the long fur hanging off of their arms as whips to lash continuously and repeatedly at foes in lightning-fast combos that can knock out opponents in mere seconds. When attacking, these whips often move so quickly that they cannot be seen by the human eye. Mienshao are incredibly focused; when they begin combos of precise whipping and kicking, nothing is able to stop them from completing them. They will build up strength over the course of smaller hits before delivering powerful finishing strikes. These blows are also incredibly accurate, striking opponents at vulnerable weak points on their bodies. Mienshao are honorable fighters that do not attack unless they are hit first or are defending weaker Pokťmon. They never use any more force than necessary to incapacitate aggressors and will back down from fights they know they cannot win. When angered, they will emit a bizarre wailing sound before beginning their assault. Mienshao take great care of and pride in their long, thick fur, dedicating much of their time when not training to grooming this fur.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Mountains

Evolution: Mienfoo

Mienshao

Proficiencies: Fighting / Martial

260

Pancham / Pangoro 

Pancham

Fighting - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 6

Skills: -

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Work Up (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Mold Breaker (Your attacks ignore any passives that would redirect, negate or weaken your attacks.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Karate Chop - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Karate Chop is a critical hit.
Comet Punch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Comet Punch has -2 during Accuracy Check. Comet Punch is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Pancham are naturally found in bamboo forests, but they will also venture onto rocky mountains from time to time as well. These Pokťmon often travel alone, or alongside Pangoro, and avoid seeking help from others. At a young age, Pancham will choose a Pangoro to apprentice under; they will strive to imitate their teacher's every move, learning how to battle and hunt. Pancham try their very hardest to appear threatening and intimidating to all of those around them; they will glare and bare their teeth when confronted to try to unnerve foes, but often end up looking adorable in the process. They may even smile if they lose focus for too long. When their intimidation tactics are not taken seriously, they will become even angrier, and thus even more endearing. These mischievous Pokťmon are virtually always seen chewing on bamboo leaves. These leaves act as pacifiers of sorts; they will become fretful when they cannot find leaves to chew on and may even break down into tears after extended periods of time.
Biology: Egg Group - Field / Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Forests / Mountains

Pangoro

Fighting / Dark - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 14

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Strength (very strong)

Passives: Leer, Work Up, Iron Fist (Your punching attacks deal +4 damage.), Mold Breaker, Scrappy (Your Normal-type and Fighting-type attacks can hit Ghost-type targets.)

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)
Bullet Punch - Melee Steel Attack: At-Will 2d6. Bullet Punch has Priority.
Circle Throw - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, move the target 40ft away.
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Evolution: Pancham

Pangoro

Proficiencies: Fighting / Dark (Pangoro) / Bruiser (Pangoro) / Punches (Pangoro)

261

In the rural, mountainous regions and bamboo forests

Riolu can detect a mystical energy known as aura, best

where Pangoro dwell, they are hailed as defenders of the described as the essence of all living things. Everything

weak and helpless. Though they can be very grumpy at

alive emanates aura; a being's vitality determines the size

times, Pangoro will not tolerate the bullying of smaller

of its aura, while its character determines its color and

Pokťmon; they will step in themselves to retaliate against shape. Riolu can read the auras of beings around them to

offenders. Their sturdy bodies let them shrug off most

determine their emotions; the more passionate the

direct attacks, while their bulky arms can snap tree trunks feelings, the more easily they be sensed. They can detect

in two. When enraged or defending others, Pangoro will strong feelings like joy and rage most easily. Since aura can

enter states of rage, disregarding any injuries of their own travel in waves and pulses, Riolu can send long-distance

to continue bashing down on foes. These somber Pokťmon messages to others of their kind via their aura without

do not make much noise, instead preferring to send

attracting attention from predators, varying their colors

messages through brute force. They use the sprigs held in and shapes to do so. When endangered, they will intensify

their mouths to detect air currents and sense where their their auras to alert their friends around them with a pulse.

opponents will go.

Though small, Riolu are also very resilient. They are playful

and energetic Pokťmon, often found leaping around

boulders or over ravines to train their agility. Riolu are also

very loyal to their trainers, willing to defend them no

matter how dangerous the situation. They will use their

aura sensing to determine the strength of approaching

foes and pick their fights accordingly.

262

Riolu / Lucario 

Riolu

Fighting - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Telepath (can read emotions), Tracker (can follow auras)

Passives: Inner Focus (You are immune to being Stunned.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)

Endure - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Endure is used as a Reaction. If you would be hit by an attack that would knock you out, use Endure to instead be left with 1 HP.
Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.
Force Palm - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Lucario can read the auras of foes to predict their thoughts and movements. Skilled Lucario can analyze auras and emotions from beings over two hundred feet away. They can also harness aura into corporeal attacks, with enough strength to blast through stone. Few foes can evade Lucario, as their aura-reading abilities enable them to pinpoint even the most well-hidden foes in the area. When they harness aura, the four black appendages on their heads will rise in the air, supported by their powers telepathically. Lucario are very loyal Pokťmon; they will give their lives to defend their trainers. They spend much of their time training alone, hiding away in mountains to avoid distractions, as distressed auras from others can also stress them out as well. They have strong senses of justice and will actively work to defeat foes whose auras read as evil-hearted.

Lucario

Fighting / Steel - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 14

Special Attack: 14

Skills: Telepath (can read minds), Tracker

Passives: Metal Sound (+1 Special Attack), Swords Dance (+2 Attack), Work Up (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Inner Focus, Justified (When a foe hits you with a Dark-type attack, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.), Steadfast (When you would be Stunned but Inner Focus prevents it, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins. *This ability is different than usual for Lucario.)

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate 13 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Caves / Mountains

Evolution: Riolu

Lucario

Proficiencies: Fighting / Steel (Lucario) / Pulse (Lucario) / Energy Blast (Lucario) / Martial (Lucario)

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +7, Effect +4)
Power-Up Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.
Aura Sphere - Ranged(30ft) Fighting Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. You can't miss targets with less than 20 Special Defense.
Close Combat - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Defense and Special Defense are -2 for 10 mins.

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 263

Sneasel (Badlands) / Sneasler 

Sneasel (Badlands)
Fighting / Poison - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 8
Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 12 Special Attack: 4
Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain), Stealth (can make stealth skill checks)
Passives: Hone Claws (+2 Attack), Inner Focus (You are immune to being Stunned.), Keen Eye (Your accuracy checks cannot be negatively affected by foes.)
Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +2, Effect +6)
Rock Smash - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.
Metal Claw - Melee Steel Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.

Sneasler

Fighting / Poison - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 48 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 8
Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 15 Special Attack: 4
Skills: Climber, Stealth
Passives: Swords Dance (+2 Attack), Inner Focus, Poison Touch (Whenever you hit with a melee attack, you may roll 1d6. On 6, Poison the target.), Pressure (If you are hit by a 3/ day attack, the attacker can't use that attack for the remainder of the day.)
Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +2, Effect +6)
Dire Claw - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is randomly either Poisoned or Paralyzed. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Dire Claw is a critical hit.
Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.
Close Combat - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Defense and Special Defense are -2 for 10 mins.

To tundra-dwelling Sneasel, the well-populated badlands are abundant with food. Accordingly, these Sneasel are not as ruthless when it comes to hunting, as competition for resources is not nearly as fierce. Though Sneasel in other regions usually work in pairs, these Sneasel tend to be solitary. This is likely due to the fact that they secrete a nerveparalyzing venom from their claws. Rather than having one individual distract the parents while the other goes after their eggs, badlands Sneasel only need to land a single swipe on their victims with a well-timed ambush. Then, after waiting for a short while for the venom to kick in, they are free to make off with the unprotected eggs at their own leisure. Of course, they almost always make a meal of their paralyzed quarries first. Sneasel use their sharp claws to scale icy rocks, and often land surprise attacks on unsuspecting prey from above. This leaves telltale gashes in the sides of cliffs, sometimes sticky with dried venom.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Mountains / Tundra

Evolution: Sneasel (Badlands)

Sneasler

Proficiencies: Fighting / Poison / Slashing

Evolution Shift compatible with Sneasel family (167)
264

Unlike their relatives Weavile, Sneasler are solitary hunters. Additionally, they are also much mellower than their more vicious cousins, rarely attacking unless provoked. Their potent venom is used almost exclusively for hunting, as few Pokťmon can reach the frozen highlands they call home, and even fewer dare challenge their sharp, envenomed claws. This venom paralyzes the nerves of its victims and renders them immobile, often a death sentence on austere mountain peaks. Sneasler are famed for their stamina. Even up where the air is thin, they can scale entire cliffs without having to catch their breaths. Their claws dig deep into the mountainside and keep them firmly planted against harsh winds. Even when cliffsides give way, Sneasler are able to nimbly reorient themselves to keep from slipping. These Pokťmon have even been recorded sleeping while still embedded in mountainsides, finishing their climbs after their slumbers.

Tyrogue are a wandering Pokťmon, having no fixed shelter and constantly moving to different locations. They are very determined and energetic, spending the day searching for new foes to spar with. They will attempt to engage in combat with nearly anything that moves, but will not attack unless they believe the opponent has given consent. Tyrogue accept victory humbly, but will sometimes take losses less than graciously. If defeated, they will nurse their wounds until healed, but will then immediately search for the foe that defeated them and attempt to hold a rematch. They will continue to do so until they become strong enough to win. Tyrogue will fight until exhaustion, even when it is clear that they will lose. They take their training very seriously, and will become stressed if they miss even a single day. As a result, trainers with Tyrogue must maintain consistent and varied training regimens to keep their Tyrogue healthy. Despite their size, they are strong fighters; opponents will often be surprised by their skill in combat.

265

Tyrogue / Hitmonlee 
/ Hitmonchan / Hitmontop

Tyrogue

Fighting - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 4

Skills: -

Passives: Guts (While afflicted, your Attack is +2.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)

Fake Out - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 2d6. Fake Out has Priority. Fake Out can only be used as your first action during an encounter. On hit, the target is Stunned.

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Foresight - Self Normal Effect: At-Will. You can hit Ghosttypes with Normal and Fighting type moves as if they are not immune to those types of attacks for two mins.

Hitmonlee

Fighting - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Reach (melee range is 20 ft.)

Passives: Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Guts, Limber (You are immune to being Paralyzed.), Reckless (Your attacks that damage yourself on hit, deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)

Mega Kick- Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. Mega Kick has -3 during Accuracy Check.

High Jump Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. High Jump Kick has -2 during Accuracy Check. If you miss, you lose HP equal to half of your Max HP.

Close Combat - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Defense and Special Defense are -2 for 10 mins.

Hitmonlee are found in cites, training peacefully alongside humans. They also occasionally head to mountains to train, though they generally return back to urban areas at night. Their legs are like springs, flexible and capable of stretching. They can extend great distances outward to surprise foes with their long ranges. When Hitmonlee kick, their soles become harder than stone upon impact. They have a great sense of balance; in combination with their incredibly limber legs. They can kick foes successively and powerfully from any position. Their legs also allow them to run smoothly, lengthening and progressively increasing the distance covered by their strides as they sprint. After tough training sessions, Hitmonlee will often massage their legs to prevent fatigue. They can often be found in dojos, teaching people how to deliver devastating kicks as well as learning new, unorthodox techniques from them.

266

Hitmonchan punches are as fast as lightning, nearly invisible to the naked eye. Hitmonchan may appear to be standing idly when in fact launching volleys of punches. However, these punches do tire them out--after three minutes of intense work, they need to take light rests. Hitmonchan are determined, having the spirit of champion boxers, and will not give up no matter what. Even during these breaks, Hitmonchan will often move around or jog quickly in place. They punch in a corkscrew fashion, with enough force to pulverize concrete. Even slight grazes from their blows can cause mild burns. They are also skilled in sparring with light punches, allowing them to act as a sparring partner to fellow Hitmonchan or to aspiring human boxers, the latter of which who almost always lose, but learn from fights nonetheless. Hitmonchan can be found training in dojos, but can also sometimes be seen punching away at boulders in mountains.

Hitmonchan
Fighting - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 30 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 11
Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 4
Skills: -
Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Guts, Inner Focus (You are immune to being Stunned.), Iron Fist (Your punching attacks deal +4 damage.), Keen Eye (Your accuracy checks cannot be negatively affected by foes.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +5)
Fire Punch - Melee Fire Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.
Ice Punch - Melee Ice Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.
Thunder Punch - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Hitmontop

Hitmontop are rather unorthodox fighters, as one may notice from their upside-down orientation in combat. When fighting, they perform enchanting dances of sorts before turning on their heads and spinning. Foes that are entranced by their elegant motions are then caught off-guard by their sudden flips, being pummeled by flurry of kicks. This spinning motion is both an offensive and defensive tactic; on one hand, their centrifugal force increases the strength of their hits. On the other, their rapid spinning enables them to deflect many projectiles aimed at them. Hitmontop travel faster by spinning than walking. If they spin fast enough, they may even begin to drill holes into the ground. Hitmontop can be found in dojos teaching others the art of balance, which is important in many forms of martial arts. Even when pushed, they can orient themselves so that they tilt back into equilibrium without being acted upon by another external force.

Biology: Egg Group - Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate - 13 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Mountains / Urban

Evolution: Tyrogue

Attack higher than Defense

Fighting - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 4

Skills: -

Passives: Focus Energy, Intimidate (+1 Defense), Guts, Steadfast (When you are Stunned, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins.), Technician (When rolling damage, replace any rolled 1s or 2s with 3.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)

Triple Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 1d12. Triple Kick is a Scatter attack. Up to 3 attacks. Triple Kick's third attack on hit deals an additional 1d12 damage.

Rapid Spin - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d8. Destroy any Hazards or Coats, and free bound allies within 5 ft. You may target Hazards, Coats, or bound allies with Rapid Spin without needing to roll Accuracy Check or damage.

Detect - Self Fighting Effect: 1/day. Detect is used as a Reaction. When you would be hit by a move, use Detect to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack.

Hitmonlee,

Defense higher than Attack Hitmonchan,

Attack is equal to Defense

Hitmontop

Proficiencies: Fighting / Kicks (Hitmonlee / Hitmontop) / Punches (Hitmonchan)

267

Falinks 

Fighting - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Modular (consists of 6 parts)
Passives: Bulk Up (+1 Attack, +1 Defense), Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Battle Armor (Critical hits are treated as normal hits against you.), Defiant (If a foe lowers any of your stats, you have +2 Attack until your lowered stats are returned to normal.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)
No Retreat - Self Fighting Effect: 3/day. As a free action, as long as you can see a foe, you cannot move away from them, or be returned to a Poke Ball until you are knocked out. Your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 10 mins.
Rock Smash - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Close Combat - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Defense and Special Defense are -2 for 10 mins.

Falinks are always found in groups of six bodies, no more and no less. They can be spotted marching through rugged badlands in single file, their feet stepping in time. The individual in the front of a Falinks is slightly larger than the others and is known as the brass; the remaining units are called troopers. Brasses lead Falinks in all aspects of life, ordering them through numerous precise formations suited for different tasks. Falinks will adapt different formations for hunting, defending, scouting, and even resting. The units in each position will hold their shields in different orientations in order to maximize the area protection. Though Falinks are nigh-impenetrable when in defensive formations, they are at their weakest when changing places; for this reason, Falinks practice changing formations on a daily basis in order to ensure their transitions are as swift as possible. Falinks are valiant fighters that will not back down if their brasses order them to, no matter the odds. Strangely, the entire group of six bodies will hatch from a single egg; it's likely they are really one body that is physically separated into independent parts.

Biology: Egg Group - Fairy / Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Badlands / Mountains Proficiencies: Fighting / Bruiser
268

Hawlucha 
Fighting / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 48 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 6
Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 7
Skills: Flight (can fly)
Passives: Feather Dance (+2 Defense), Swords Dance (+2 Attack), Limber (You are immune to being Paralyzed.), Mold Breaker (Your attacks ignore any passives that would redirect, negate or weaken your attacks.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +6)
Wing Attack - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d8.
Flying Press - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. Flying Press counts as both a Flying and Fighting type move when determining effectiveness.
High Jump Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. High Jump Kick has -2 during Accuracy Check. If you miss, you lose HP equal to half of your Max HP.

Hawlucha are agile fighters that have the ability to take to the skies. Though small and relatively frail, the dexterity of these Pokťmon allows them to stay on par with the likes of heavier Pokťmon in battle. Hawlucha cannot truly fly; rather, they jump into the air or leap from high places and use their wings to soar on wind currents. They can deftly switch between different drafts to stay in the air for long periods of time. Their style of fighting is thought to be very elegant, with an emphasis on well-executed submission holds. In fact, Hawlucha take great pride in the grace of their attacks and will often perform twirls and spins in the air simply for show. They will always strike a pose before delivering finishing blows. Sometimes, they will accidentally spend so much time on performing that they end up giving opponents an opening, much to their embarrassment. Because of the artistic style of their fighting, many people enjoy watching Hawlucha battle.

Biology: Egg Group - Flying / Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Fields / Forests
Proficiencies: Fighting / Flying / Martial (No Punches/ Kicks) / Avian / Winged

Passimian dwell in troops of twenty to thirty individuals. They are led by a boss Passimian, who fashions an arm marking of leaves that all other Passimian in the troop will bear to distinguish themselves; the leaves are stuck on using dried saliva. These Pokťmon excel when it comes to teamwork. Bosses will select ten of the fittest members to accompany them as they search for Berries; this is done on a case-by-case basis, so Passimian must constantly train themselves to stay in peak condition. Each Passimian in a team performs a particular assigned role when foraging. Bosses will routinely conduct training exercises in which troop members must pass Berries to one another both quickly and accurately. The Passimian that can throw a Berry the farthest is the de-facto leader. These sessions are often long and laborious; some Passimian even end up running away because they are unable to handle the pressure. Troop members will never leave a comrade behind. Bosses pass down special techniques from generation to generation.

269

Passimian 

Fighting - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 14

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain)

Passives: Bulk Up (+1 Attack, +1 Defense), Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Leer (+1 Attack), Defiant (If a foe lowers any of your stats, you have +2 Attack until your lowered stats are returned to normal.), Receiver (When an ally is knocked out within 10ft of you, you gain one of your ally's passives for 2 mins.)

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)
Rock Smash - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Sawk live alone in secluded areas away from both other Pokťmon and humans. Sawk train relentlessly far up in mountains and deep in forests with the desire to perfect flawless karate chops. They will often go days without food or sleep during their brutal training. People living near the feet of mountains often report hearing distant thumping sounds in the middle of the night; oftentimes, they are the sounds of Sawk training their chops and kicks on tree trunks and boulders. Because their training requires such intense concentration, Sawk will become very angry if they are bothered during their practice. They may even retaliate if they are sufficiently irked. By tightening the belts around their waists, Sawk can increase the power of their blows. Sawk periodically replace their belts, which are usually made from sturdy vines that they find in the wild, as they get stronger. Because of this, their strength can be discerned from the quality of its belt.

Thrash - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. Thrash is a two -turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.

Reversal - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 1d10. If you are at less than half of your Max HP, Reversal has 1d20 for damage instead. If you are at less than 5 HP, Reversal has 5d12 for damage instead.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Jungles
Proficiencies: Fighting / Bruiser

Throh are skilled at subduing foes in chokeholds and throwing them with great strength. Throh always travel in packs of exactly five. In the wild, they will tie sturdy vines around their waists as a belt; trained Throh often use strips of cloth or actual belts instead. Throh can tighten their belts to become sturdier and stronger. As they train, they search for more resilient vines that can withstand their strength; A Throh will gauge another's power based on the toughness of its belt, which grows darker over time as it absorbs its owner's sweat. Their primary method of defending themselves is to grab hold of threats and throw them as far away as possible. If enemies are too far away to grasp, these Pokťmon are also known to chuck heavy objects like logs and boulders at them from a distance to scare them away. They will usually wait for their opponents to try and attack them first before retaliating with defensive counterattacks. A Throh that cannot keep up with its pack's training will discard its belt and banish itself to train in solitude; the pack will then search for a new Throh to take its place.

270

Sawk 

Throh 

Fighting - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 48 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 8

Fighting - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 72 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 15

Special Attack: 3

Skills: -

Passives: Bulk Up (+1 Attack, +1 Defense), Leer (+1 Attack), Inner Focus (You are immune to being Stunned.), Mold Breaker (Your attacks ignore any passives that would redirect, negate or weaken your attacks.), Sturdy (If you would be brought from Max HP to 0 or below, you are instead brought to 1 HP.)

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +1, Effect +4)

Brick Break - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. Destroy any Walls within 5 ft. You may target Walls with Brick Break without needing to roll Accuracy Check or damage.

Retaliate - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 1d12. If the target knocked out an ally during this round, Retaliate has 5d12 for damage instead.

Close Combat - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Defense and Special Defense are -2 for 10 mins.

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 3

Skills: -

Passives: Bulk Up (+1 Attack, +1 Defense), Leer (+1 Attack), Guts (While afflicted, your Attack is +2.), Inner Focus (You are immune to being Stunned.), Mold Breaker (Your attacks ignore any passives that would redirect, negate or weaken your attacks.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +1, Effect +2)

Body Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed. Body Slam can Paralyze Electric-types.

Circle Throw - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, move the target 40ft away.

Superpower - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Attack and Defense is -2 for 10 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Mountains
Proficiencies: Fighting / Martial (No Kicks)

Biology: Egg Group - Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Mountains
Proficiencies: Fighting / Bruiser

271

Tauros (Aqua Breed) 

Fighting / Water - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)
Hit Points: 48 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 7
Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 12 Special Attack: 3
Skills: Genetic Relation (can breed to produce Miltank) , Strength (very strong)
Passives: Scary Face (+2 Speed), Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Anger Point (When hit by a critical hit, raise Attack +6 for 10 mins.), Cud Chew (When you consume a berry, its effect will activate a second time 1 round of combat later.)
Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +1, Effect +6)
Aqua Jet - Melee Water Attack: At-Will 2d6. Aqua Jet has Priority.
Swagger - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.
Wave Crash- Melee Water Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal. Your Speed is +2 for 10 mins.
Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Grasslands / Plains
Proficiencies: Water / Stampeding

Tauros that are fight-crazed and raised in aggressive territorial landscapes are strikingly black in appearance, and in fact come in three breeds. The most common is the Combative Breed, which sports sturdy muscles and an aggressive nature. It is particularly well-versed in close-range combat, using its horns to gore foes in their vulnerable areas. In more arid regions, the Blaze Breed can also be found. These Tauros generate great heat within themselves; even the air they snort out of their nostrils is heated. Blaze Breed Tauros can be distinguished by their intertwined tails and superheated horns, and burn foes when striking with them. Aqua Breed Tauros are most common at the water's edge; their tripartite tails spin in the water like propellers to push them through rivers, and their high body fat helps them float above the surface. Their horns can also shoot high-pressured jets of water that can pierce through foes. Trainers take pride in their individual Tauros, and prized individuals will compete against one another in both battles as well as showmanship competitions.

Evolution Shift compatible with Tauros (Blaze Breed) (273), Tauros (Combative) (273), Tauros (511)
272

Tauros (Blaze Breed) 
Fighting / Fire - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)
Hit Points: 48 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 7
Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 3
Skills: Genetic Relation (can breed to produce Miltank) , Strength (very strong)
Passives: Intimidate (+1 Defense), Scary Face (+2 Speed), Anger Point (When hit by a critical hit, raise Attack +6 for 10 mins.), Cud Chew (When you consume a berry, its effect will activate a second time 1 round of combat later.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +1, Effect +6) / Bruiser Flame Charge - Melee Fire Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins.
Swagger - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.
Flare Blitz - Melee Fire Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal and if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Tauros (Combative) 
Fighting - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)
Hit Points: 48 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 7
Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 12 Special Attack: 4
Skills: Genetic Relation (can breed to produce Miltank) , Strength (very strong)
Passives: Scary Face (+2 Speed), Work Up (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Anger Point (When hit by a critical hit, raise Attack +6 for 10 mins.), Cud Chew (When you consume a berry, its effect will activate a second time 1 round of combat later.)
Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +2, Effect +6)
Double Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 2d8. Double Kick is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.
Swagger - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.
Close Combat - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Defense and Special Defense are -2 for 10 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Grasslands / Plains
Proficiencies: Fire / Stampeding

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Grasslands / Plains
Proficiencies: Kicks / Stampeding

Evolution Shift compatible with Tauros (Aqua Breed) (272), Tauros (Combative) (273), Tauros (511)

Evolution Shift compatible with Tauros (Aqua Breed) (272), Tauros (Blaze Breed) (273), Tauros (511)
273

Fletchling / Fletchinder / Talonflame 

Fletchling

Normal / Flying - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Growl (+1 Defense), Big Pecks (Your Defense cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +4) Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority. Peck - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Fletchinder

Fire / Flying - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire), Flight

Passives: Agility, Growl, Big Pecks, Flame Body (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Burn the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +5)
Flame Charge - Melee Fire Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins.

Flail - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 1d10. If you are at less than half of your Max HP, Flail has 1d20 for damage instead. If you are at less than 5 HP, Flail has 5d12 for damage instead.
Roost - Self Flying Effect: 1/day. You must be on the ground to use Roost. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP. You lose Flying-type until your next turn.

In some parts of the world, Fletchling are a common sight, as they not only inhabit woodlands and fields but also urban areas as well. They are heard more often than seen; many are familiar with their melodic singing. Fletchling are diurnal and are most active in the early morning, when they can often be heard chirping amongst the trees. They communicate with one another with distinctive chirps and intricate movements of their tail-feathers. Their pretty voices, however, are a sharp contrast to their personalities-- Fletchling are extremely territorial. They will relentlessly peck foes to drive them away and aren't afraid to aim for the vulnerable areas of foes. Most gruesomely, Fletchling often target eyes. They are very friendly towards familiar faces, however. When excited or frightened, their body temperatures can double as aggressive hormones spike in their blood; this can even be enough to cause mild burns in some cases.

274

Fletchinder rarely inhabit urban areas, as they prefer to stake out territories of several miles and fly long distances in the open air of the wilderness. These Pokťmon have flame sacs within their bodies that lay dormant most of the time. While hunting or fleeing, however, Fletchinder can exert energy to ignite these sacs and increase their flight speeds; this acceleration is not instant, though, as it takes time for their sacs to reach full blaze. Instead, Fletchinder will gradually speed up as their sacs grow hotter and hotter. Still, some Fletchinder can reach quite impressive speeds even before warming up. In battles, Fletchinder will sometimes spend the first few moments playing defensively as they wait for their flame sacs to heat up before surprising their foes with swift assaults. To hunt, Fletchinder will let loose embers from their beaks that set the grass below on fire, scaring out creatures hiding within. Then, they swoop down to capture and roast the bewildered prey. To prevent their fires from spreading and destroying their future hunting grounds, Fletchinder will blow out their own blazes with gusts of wind after hunting.

Talonflame
Fire / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 15 (75 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Firestarter, Flight, Guster (can produce wind)

Passives: Agility, Growl, Big Pecks, Flame Body, Gale Wings (If you use a Flying Type Move during your turn, your Speed is +2 until the end of your next turn.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +7)

Wing Attack - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d8.

Steel Wing - Melee Steel Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Brave Bird - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

Talonflame are fearsome birds of prey that inhabit the

skies above open woodlands and fields. The flame sacs within Talonflame are always burning at their maximum temperature. Consequently, these Pokťmon have to hunt

Biology: Egg Group - Flying, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Fields / Woodlands

often in order to satiate their raging flames. Talonflame can Evolution: Fletchling

Fletchinder

Talonflame

reach the astonishing speeds while diving to the ground for prey. They also have strong talons and hind limbs, often using their feet to deliver powerful kicks as the killing blows

Proficiencies: Fire (Fletchinder / Talonflame) / Flying / Avian / Winged

to most prey. Talonflame can let loose showers of embers

from the spaces between their feathers, leaving behind

trails of heated air as they soar around. They are aerial

fighters that prefer to attack from the sky whenever possi-

ble; Talonflame will achieve a high velocity by dive-bombing

opponents headfirst before swinging their lower bodies in

front of them at the last second to deliver formidable kicks.

They almost exclusively hunt smaller Flying-type Pokťmon.

275

Magby / Magmar / Magmortar 

Magby

Fire - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire), Heater (always warm)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Flame Body (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Burn the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Smoke Screen - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. Place up to 25 contiguous ft of Smoke Screen Wall. Smoke Screen Wall has no thickness, is 12 ft tall and has the following ability: Attacks that target through or within the wall have -2 during Accuracy Check. This Wall disappears after 2 mins.
Feint Attack - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense.

Magmar

Fire - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Firestarter, Heater, Sinker (can't swim)

Magby can spit flames with extreme heat. They can evaporate small puddles merely by standing near them. Their blood is almost magma-like; as they breathe, they let out tiny embers from their mouths and nostrils. Their health can be gauged from the color of their flames. Magby that spit out yellow or orange fire are healthy and in good shape. Those that exhale flames that are dull or are mixed with black smoke, however, are likely fatigued or ill. They make their homes directly in the craters of active volcanoes, right at the edges of lava pools. It is widely believed that if many Magby begin to cluster in the same crater within a short period of time, then the volcano in question will erupt very soon.

Passives: Leer, Flame Body

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)

Fire Spin - Ranged(20ft) Fire Special Attack: 3/day 1d4. On hit, the target is bound in place for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 special damage on its turns.

Confuse Ray - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target becomes Confused.

Fire Punch - Melee Fire Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

276

Magmar have internal body temperatures matching that of molten lava. Their bodies are always cloaked in flames, so they constantly glow orange. This allows them to hide in the lava around their volcanic homes. Magmar make the air surrounding them shimmer. When they breathe flames, the sheer heat waves created are enough to scorch entire swathes of grass and trees; they will let out bursts of flames when they sneeze. They dislike cold places, and will use their fire-breathing abilities to make areas more suitable for themselves. While active in warm climates, they tend to be sluggish in cooler ones. Magmar intimidate foes by spewing flames all over themselves. If enemies aren't discouraged, they will attack. Magmar can exhale deeply to increase the shimmering effects around them, making them more difficult to see and giving them time to escape. Magmar also have the ability to heal themselves over time in magma; they can submerge themselves in lava to heal their wounds.

Magmortar

Fire - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 13

Skills: Firestarter, Heater, Sinker

Passives: Leer, Flame Body, Vital Spirit (You are immune to being put to Sleep.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +6, Effect +4)

Flamethrower - Ranged(20ft beam) Fire Special Attack: 3/ day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Magmortar are rare in the wild due to their need for constant, intense heat. Wild Magmortar are almost exclusively found deep within active volcanic craters capable of producing the immense heat they need. To defend them-

Fire Blast - Ranged(40ft, 10ft blast) Fire Special Attack: 1/ day 5d12. Fire Blast has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Sunny. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the targets are Burned.

selves, Magmortar can launch fireballs from their cannon- Hyper Beam - Ranged(25ft beam) Normal Special Attack: 1/

like arms. When they do so, the sheer, blistering heat

day 5d20. Hyper Beam has a recharge turn and -2 during

makes them briefly glow a whitish hue. Even their breath is Accuracy Check.

very hot, audibly sizzling when they exhale. These breaths

can sear meat within seconds and have been known to

start forest fires in drier areas. Despite their potential dan- Biology: Egg Group - Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate - 13

gers, Magmortar are not a very aggressive species, likely

Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Volcanoes

due to having few threats in their volcanic homes; they gen-

erally will not attack unless provoked.

Evolution: Magby

Magmar

Magmortar

Proficiencies: Fire / Energy Blast (Magmar / Magmortar) / Munition (Magmortar) / Stampeding (Magmar / Magmortar)

277

Cubone / Marowak (Volcanic) 

Cubone

Ground - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 4

Skills: -

Passives: Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Growl (+1 Defense), Leer (+1 Attack), Lightning Rod (Any foe's ranged Electric-type attacks within 25ft or any adjacent foe's Electric-type attacks are negated and drawn to you. Your Special Attack is +2 until the end of your next turn whenever you negate an Electric-type attack.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)

Hold Back - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Hold Back cannot be used to knock out a target. Instead, the target will still have 1 HP.

Headbutt - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Bone Club - Melee Ground Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Marowak (Volcanic)

Fire / Ghost - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire)

Passives: Focus Energy, Growl, Swords Dance, Cursed Body (When you are hit by a foe's melee attack, disable that attack for 10 mins. Cursed Body can only affect one attack at a time.), Lightning Rod, Rock Head

Cubone and their evolutions Marowak have a very complex social structure, revolving primarily around solitude, worth, and bones. In a tribe of Marowak, the bones of ancestors are kept and treasured as heirlooms, passed on through generations. When born, Cubone do not see their mothers, as their eggs are abandoned in the wild. They are born with closed eyes far away from their tribes, with only a bone and a skull to protect themselves. They then simply wander aimlessly, wearing the skulls as helmets and using the bones as weapons. It is commonly believed that these bones are the remains of their mothers, though in reality, they are bones of long passed Marowak left by their living parents. Most Cubone are traumatized by abandonment, crying mournfully into their skulls to create a rattling sound. They often look up on nights of full moons and cry. They are antisocial Pokťmon; since they are so isolated, they do not know how to interact with others.

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Flame Wheel - Melee Fire Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.
Shadow Bone - Melee Ghost Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Will-O-Wisp - Ranged(10ft) Fire Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Burned.

Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Badlands / Caves / Mountains / Volcanoes

Evolution: Cubone Volcanic Marowak

Raised near volcano

Proficiencies: Fire (Volcanic Marowak) / Ghost (Volcanic Marowak) / Ground

Evolution Shift compatible with Cubone family (388)
278

In harsh Volcanic lands, Cubone often will be forced together by lava flow and form bonds and even be able to join Marowak tribes in their youth. Volcanic Marowak do not have the same isolated experiences as others and hold elaborate mourning rituals for their fallen allies. Though their bones may be repurposed for future Cubone generations, Marowak will create dirt mound graves along the sides of roads, fiercely attacking those who disturb them. Their undying loyalty for one another endures even through death, with their spirits protecting those wielding their bones and granting them sixth senses. Marowak strike their bones on the black patches on their heads to ignite them. They spin their bones and perform intricate dances to perform both rituals and attacks. They can release fireballs in this manner; while not individually strong, their determination to land repeated blows can make them formidable foes. Despite their nurturing tribes, these Marowak also practice the abandonment of their eggs with a skull and bone for their young.

Darumaka primarily dwell in arid deserts. During the day, these Pokťmon are extremely hyperactive; the fires burning within their bodies keep them constantly running about. At night, however, their temperaments change suddenly. When Darumaka sleep, their internal fires cool and they withdraw their limbs into their bodies, rocking back and forth slightly in this state. They sleep in upright positions, with the majority of their masses located near their bottoms. This makes them difficult to knock over when they are pushed or pulled. Oddly, sleeping Darumaka were once found congregating near the ruins of an ancient desert civilization, having been asleep for an unknown amount of time. Upon awakening, the creatures appeared dazed for a while, but were otherwise completely healthy. Because of their high internal body temperatures, their droppings are very hot. Nomads used to hold Darumaka dung in their pockets to keep warm during cold desert nights.

279

Darumaka / Darmanitan 

Darumaka

Fire - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 2

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire), Heater (always warm)

Passives: Hustle (Your attacks against foes have -2 Accuracy. After the first time you miss an attack during an encounter, the -2 Accuracy penalty is removed and you gain +4 Attack until the end of the encounter.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +1, Effect +2)

Rollout - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Rollout against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Rollout's damage.

Incinerate - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if the target is holding a Berry, you destroy it.
Headbutt - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Darmanitan

Fire - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight) Hit Points: 66 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6 Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 15 Special Attack: 4

Darmanitan Zen Mode

Fire / Psychic - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 66 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 15

Skills: Firestarter, Heater

Most of the time, Darmanitan are absolutely bursting with energy, they can hardly remain still for even a second. Their boundless energy also grants them impressive power in battle, increasing with their internal temperatures; they can crush trucks with a single punch. When weakened, however, their bodies activate a survival mechanism that causes them to harden into a stone-like material. In this form, known as Zen Mode, Darmanitan become far bulkier and more durable, though they are also rendered much slower as a result. Zen Mode Darmanitan are adept at meditation; they don't need to eat or drink. However, their physical attacks are far weaker than when in their Standard Mode; leading them to rely on their durability and mental strength to defeat foes. Many Zen Mode Darmanitan have been found buried in ancient desert ruins, dated to be as old as the structures themselves. It is believed that these Pokťmon once served as guards of these ancient societies, entering Zen Mode as they awaited their next orders that would never arrive.

Passives: Work Up (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Sheer Force (Your attacks that have additional effects that affect the target may deal +4 damage, but will not have those additional effects.), Zen Mode (Darmanitan changes to its Zen Mode when it is at or below half of its max HP.)
Moves (Attack +7/+2, Special Attack +2/+7, Effect +5/+3)
Belly Drum - Self Normal Effect: 3/day. You lose HP equal to half of your Max HP, then your Attack is +6 for 10 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Deserts / Forests / Mountains / Ruins

Evolution: Darumaka

Darmanitan

Proficiencies: Fire / Psychic (Darmanitan) / Bruiser (Darmanitan)

Superpower - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Attack and Defense is -2 for 10 mins.

Zen Headbutt - Melee Psychic Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Evolution Shift compatible with Darumaka (Icy Mountain) family (421)

280

Growlithe / Arcanine 

Growlithe

Fire - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire), Tracker (can follow scents)

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Leer (+1 Attack), Flash Fire (You are immune to Fire-type attacks. If you would be hit by a Firetype attack, your Fire type attacks deal +4 damage for 2 mins.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Fire Fang - Melee Fire Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is randomly either Stunned or Burned.

While wild Growlithe make their homes in hot areas, such as volcanoes or plains burned by wildfires, they are also a common sight in cities, where they are often pets. Their amazing senses of smell and olfactory memory allow them to never forget scents and track others. However, exceptionally strong odors may sometimes overpower their sensitive noses and temporarily disable their senses of smell. Growlithe are also extremely loyal, defending their trainers by barking at or biting anyone that appears dangerous. However, they will obey commands unerringly, and will always wait for instructions before attacking. Growlithe are fearless Pokťmon that will not back down from even the largest and strongest of enemies.

Arcanine
Fire - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight) Hit Points: 54 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 8 Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 12 Special Attack: 10 Skills: Firestarter, Tracker Passives: Agility, Intimidate (+1 Defense), Leer, Flash Fire, Justified (When a foe hits you with a Dark-type attack, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.)
Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +5, Effect +6)

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Carnivore, Habitat - Plains / Volcanoes

Evolution: Growlithe

Fire Stone Arcanine

Proficiencies: Fire / Bruiser / Fangs

Extreme Speed - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Extreme Speed has Priority and cannot be contested for Priority.
Flare Blitz - Melee Fire Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal and if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Evolution Shift compatible with Growlithe (Ancient) family (283)
281

In the past, Arcanine were revered as legendary Pokťmon. One was said to have been the partner of a mythical general who conquered an entire nation with Arcanine by his side. Arcanine are said to be able to run over 2,000 miles in a day. They are thought to look like they are flying when running due to their grace and beauty. Strong fires burn within these Pokťmon, allowing them to use many powerful Fire-type moves. Though rare in the wild, Arcanine can occasionally be seen dashing across prairies, gathering food and storing it in their manes to bring back for their young. Their deafening roars can silence enemies. Arcanine command great respect with their awe-striking power.

Growlithe in chilly regions that still have active volcanoes have developed thicker, denser fur that helps them retain the great heat they already generate. Curiously, Growlithe have also sprouted stone horns composed of petrified fur; these growths are quite fragile, so these Pokťmon are hesitant to use them and will only charge when they sense great danger. These horns are composed of igneous minerals, which Growlithe consume in small quantities from their snow-covered volcanic habitats. No longer accustomed to life alongside people, they are much warier of humans and tend to stay away. Growlithe use their sharp senses to keep watch of their territories, patrolling in pairs and working together to keep enemies away. When one member of a pair senses an intruder, it will let out a characteristic bark that lets the other know exactly what is approaching; pairs will develop their own unique calls to distinguish local threats from one another.

282

Growlithe / Arcanine (Ancient) 

Growlithe (Ancient)

Fire / Rock - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire), Tracker (can follow scents)

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Leer (+1 Attack), Flash Fire (You are immune to Fire-type attacks. If you would be hit by a Firetype attack, your Fire type attacks deal +4 damage for 2 mins.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

More of Arcanine fur petrifies upon evolution, granting them carapaces of igneous armor. They consume a significant amount of stone and soil following volcanic eruptions in order to maintain these parts of their bodies. These imposing Pokťmon are surprisingly agile for their size and weight. They prance around foes in combat to mislead them into awkward positions while lunging at them with fiery teeth to further startle them. Then, once opponents overcommit, they lunge to finish them off with well-placed bites. Arcanine seem to enjoy these battle dances and will rarely go for direct hits even when they are available. Both sexes participate in an elaborate mating ritual that involves running in circles, leaping, and releasing flames in time with one another. Mates judge their compatibility with one another based on how well they can stay in sync during these dances.

Fire Fang - Melee Fire Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is randomly either Stunned or Burned.
Arcanine (Ancient)
Fire / Rock - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight) Hit Points: 60 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 8 Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 13 Special Attack: 10 Skills: Firestarter, Tracker Passives: Agility, Intimidate (+1 Defense), Leer, Flash Fire, Rock Head (Your attacks that damage yourself on hit do not damage yourself.)
Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Carnivore, Habitat - Plains / Volcanoes

Evolution: Growlithe (Ancient) Arcanine (Ancient)

Fire Stone

Proficiencies: Fire / Rock / Bruiser / Fangs

Rock Slide - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Rock Attack: 1/day 5d12. Rock Slide has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Flare Blitz - Melee Fire Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal and if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Evolution Shift compatible with Growlithe family (281)
283

Litleo / Pyroar 

Litleo

Fire / Normal - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Work Up (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Unnerve (Foes within 25ft of you cannot consume food.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)

Headbutt - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.
Take Down - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.

Pyroar

Fire / Normal - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 12

Skills: Firestarter

Passives: Moxie (+1 Attack), Work Up, Unnerve

Litleo live in prides along with their older relatives. These Pokťmon are easily excitable and quick to get into fights with others. The tufts of fur on their heads, which many refer to as their manes despite their odd placements, radiate a great deal of heat; they often glow and pulse as a result. The intensity and temperature of light emanating from a Litleo mane is indicative of its emotions; the mane will burn hotter and brighter when it is angered or excited, but duller when it is ill or fatigued. Litleo manes tend to glow very bright when they are in heated battles as their bodies work to provide as much energy as possible. Young Litleo never stray from their prides, honing their skills by playfighting with siblings or stalking prey that wander near. Older ones, though, are forced out of their prides to hunt for themselves; when evolved, they may return to their old prides, join separate ones, or, if male, start their own, provided that they can recruit a respectable number of females into them.

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +6, Effect +5)

Flamethrower - Ranged(20ftbeam ) Fire Special Attack: 3/ day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Carnivore, Habitat - Fields / Savannas

Evolution: Litleo

Pyroar

Proficiencies: Fire / Fangs

Hyper Voice - Ranged(30ft beam) Normal Special Attack: 1/ day 3d12.

284

Pyroar are often called the "kings of the savannas" due to their regal appearances. They live in prides led by the male with the largest mane. Pyroar demonstrate dimorphism, visually present in the manes of males and females.

Numel are sturdy Pokťmon, capable of carrying loads of up to 220 lbs. on their backs. However, they are also rather dim-witted, unable to sense pain in most parts of their bodies. Their humps are filled with magma and when it rains,

Pyroar manes can be very hot. However, they try to avoid their magma cools and thickens, making them slower and

using flames to take down prey unless necessary, as they more lethargic. When Numel use Fire-type attacks, their

prefer their meat raw. The males of a Pyroar pride go out humps shrink; if their backs completely flatten, then they

on hunts, led by the head male, to bring back food for all of have used up all of their magma and must replenish it. In

the members. The females stay behind and guard the terri- volcanic areas during ancient times, humans often used

tory from intruders while caring for younger Litleo. Males Numel to carry heavy cargo up mountain trails. Such a

rarely get involved in combat unless a significant threat is trend still carries on in some rural settlements today,

involved, in which case they will put their lives on the line where Numel farms rent trained Numel to hiking tourists.

for their prides. When moving or expanding their territory, Numel absolutely cannot stand being hungry; if they begin

Pyroar will announce their presence by roaring; the fear- to feel famished, they will immediately stop moving and

some sound warns other Pokťmon in the area to desert will not start again until they are fed.

and cede their land to the encroaching Pyroar pride or else

face the consequences. Conflicts between two Pyroar

prides over territory always end with large swathes of the

savanna being left charred and barren.

285

Numel / Camerupt 

Numel

Fire / Ground - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire), Heater (always warm), Sinker (can't swim)

Passives: Amnesia (+2 Special Defense), Growl (+1 Defense), Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Oblivious (You are immune to Infatuation.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Lava Plume - Ranged(20ft burst) Fire Special Attack: 1/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, targets are burned.

Camerupt

Fire / Ground - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Firestarter, Groundshaper (can manipulate the ground), Heater, Sinker

Passives: Amnesia, Growl, Focus Energy, Anger Point (When hit by a critical hit, raise Attack +6 for 10 mins.), Oblivious, Solid Rock (Super-effective attacks against you deal ≠4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +5, Effect +2)
Rock Slide - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Rock Attack: 1/day 5d12. Rock Slide has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Camerupt live within the craters of active volcanoes, drinking magma that oozes out from the ground. They store this magma within the humps on their backs, which are made of modified bone. When angered, Camerupt will let their lava loose, blasting magma out of their humps at foes. Each of their humps essentially functions as a miniature volcano. Camerupt are mostly aloof, ignoring anything that doesn't go out of its way to provoke them. However, they will become uncontrollably angry if something strikes their faces, erupting magma out of their humps recklessly and charging blindly at anything that moves. When Camerupt rampage, they will not cease until they have expelled all of the magma in their bodies.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore / Terravore, Habitat - Volcanoes

Evolution: Numel

Camerupt

Proficiencies: Fire / Ground (Camerupt) / Munitions (Camerupt) / Stampeding (Camerupt)

Earth Power - Ranged(15ft) Ground Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Earthquake - Ranged(30ft burst) Ground Attack: 1/day 3d12.

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 286

Pansear / Simisear 

Pansear

Fire - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain), Firestarter (can create fire)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Play Nice (+1 Defense), Blaze (When you are below 20 HP, your Fire-type attacks deal +4 damage)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)

Scratch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Lick - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d8. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Incinerate - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if the target is holding a Berry, you destroy it.

Pansear curiously live not only in temperate forests, but also around areas of volcanic activity. Unlike some other volcano-dwelling Fire-type Pokťmon, however, Pansear do not only restrict themselves to active or dormant volcanoes; they can also be found on or near the calderas of extinct ones as well, despite their lack of magma. This ability makes extinct volcanoes "hot spots," so to speak, for Pansear colonies; as other species of Pokťmon emigrate to new volcanoes once their current ones die out, Pansear in these areas can take over the abandoned territories and repopulate them. Pansear internally combust their food to provide themselves with energy. They are highly intelligent, capable of solving logic puzzles as fast as an average child. They mainly store heat in the tufts of fur on their heads. They often cook gathered Berries before consuming them, and are known to skewer them on twigs and roast them over their heads as they search for more food.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Jungles / Volcanoes

Evolution: Pansear

Fire Stone Simisear

Proficiencies: Fire / Tricky

Simisear
Fire - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6
Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 10
Skills: Climber, Firestarter
Passives: Leer, Play Nice, Blaze, Prankster (Your attacks that do not deal damage on hit have Priority.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)
Fury Swipes - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Fury Swipes has -2 during Accuracy Check. Fury Swipes is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Flame Burst - Ranged(20ft, 5ft blast) Fire Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8.
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

287

Simisear are very enthusiastic Pokťmon. They will often

Ponyta are born as weak runners, unable to take more

approach foreigners entering their territories, holding out than a few steps without stumbling. However, as they

handfuls of Berries as peace offerings. Simisear are heavily gallop along with their parents and jump over tall grass,

reliant on sugar to fuel their internal flames; without it, they their legs quickly become stronger. Eventually Ponyta are

will become dull and unresponsive. As a result, they tend to consume only the sweetest types of Berries. In artificial settings, Simisear have been shown to be intelligent enough to grow and harvest their own Berries if provided with the necessary tools and instructions. However, they appear to only be willing to farm their own food if no other options are available; they will let their crops wither as

one of the best jumpers in the world. Their hooves are harder than rock, allowing them to flatten practically anything they trample over. These sturdy hooves absorb the impact from their enormous jumps. Ponyta are born flameless, but their fire emerges as soon as an hour after birth. They defend themselves using both their hooves and

soon as a more available food source appears. Simisear are their flames, rearing their legs to kick targets behind them

also fond of candy because of the high sugar content of

and attacking those in front with flames. Ponyta can only

such treats. When threatened, Simisear can shake their

be ridden by those that they trust; if strangers attempt to

heads and tails to release clouds of fiery embers that

mount them, they can burn them with fire. Curiously, their

shroud and burn foes.

flames never dissipate. Though Ponyta can control the

temperatures of their flames, they cannot make them

disappear.

288

Ponyta / Rapidash 

Ponyta

Fire - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 30 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7
Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 10 Special Attack: 7
Skills: Firestarter (can create fire), Heater (always warm), Sinker (can't swim)
Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Run Away (+1 Speed), Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Flash Fire (You are immune to Fire-type attacks. If you would be hit by a Fire-type attack, your Fire type attacks deal +4 damage for 2 mins.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +5)

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Stomp - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Rapidash spend most of their time cantering leisurely through plains. When feeling playful, they love running, and can of reaching speeds rivaling that of race cars going up to 100 miles per hour, their feet seeming to barely even touch the ground when sprinting. Rapidash greatly enjoy being challenged. When they see anything moving quickly, even man-made objects like trains and cars, they will race alongside it and attempt to out-speed it. They can reach their top speeds in as little as ten steps, appearing as blazing trails of fire to onlookers. These flames flare up and become larger the faster Rapidash run. At full speed, their manes appear to sparkle. Their flames only burn those that they distrust or are angered by. Rapidash can use their horns, in addition to their Fire-type attacks and powerful hooves, to defend themselves. However, they are not aggressive and will only charge if they feel threatened. The fastest Rapidash in a herd is the de-facto leader, setting the pace and direction for the others.
Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Grasslands / Plains / Woodlands
Evolution: Ponyta Rapidash
Proficiencies: Fire / Horned (Rapidash) / Stampeding (Rapidash)

Rapidash
Fire - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)
Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8
Speed: 13 (65 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 8
Skills: Firestarter, Heater, Sinker
Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Growl, Tail Whip, Flame Body (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Burn the attacker.), Flash Fire
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +4, Effect +6)
Flame Charge - Melee Fire Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins.
Bounce - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Bounce is a twoturn move. On the first turn, raise yourself 40 ft into the air. On the second turn, return to the ground, move up to twice your movement rate, then you may roll Bounce's Accuracy Check and damage. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Flare Blitz - Melee Fire Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal and if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Evolution Shift compatible with Ponyta (Forest Glade) family (569)
289

Sizzlipede / Centiskorch 

Sizzlipede

Fire / Bug - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire), Heater (always warm)

Passives: Flash Fire (You are immune to Fire-type attacks. If you would be hit by a Fire-type attack, your Fire type attacks deal +4 damage for 2 mins.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)

Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Wrap - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 physical damage on its turns.
Smoke Screen - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. Place up to 25 contiguous ft of Smoke Screen Wall. Smoke Screen Wall has no thickness, is 12 ft tall and has the following ability: Attacks that target through or within the wall have -2 during Accuracy Check. This Wall disappears after 2 mins.

Centiskorch

Fire / Bug - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 14

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Firestarter, Heater

Sizzlipede are generalist predators that will hunt anything they can get their claws into. They absorb flammable gases produced by decaying plant matter on the ground and store it within their bodies. They can then ignite this gas to make heat, concentrating it in the yellow rings on their bellies. After Sizzlipede catch prey, they will coil themselves around their meals to simultaneously subdue and cook them. This allows them to go after tougher prey than one would expect for their size. Sizzlipede are voracious eaters that will consume every bit of a catch, but they can subsist off a single good meal for weeks at a time. They can be quite finicky regarding cooking temperatures and pride themselves on being able to cook meals to perfection. Because these invertebrates can generate heat, they can inhabit cold mountains that would be too chilly for other ectotherms. When Sizzlipede run out of gas, they will retreat beneath plant detritus until they finish recharging.

Passives: Coil (+2 Attack, +1 Defense), Flame Body (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Burn the attacker.), Flash Fire, White Smoke (Your stats cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.)
Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)
Bug Bite - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if the target is holding a Berry, you steal it and immediately consume it.

Biology: Egg Group - Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Mountains / Volcanoes
Evolution: Sizzlipede Centiskorch
Proficiencies: Bug / Fire

Fire Lash - Melee Fire Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Fire Spin - Ranged(20ft) Fire Special Attack: 3/day 1d4. On hit, the target is bound in place for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 special damage on its turns.

This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2. 290

With blazing flames and sharp fangs, Centiskorch are

formidable hunters. They can ignite internal gases to reach Thin, transparent skin covers the bodies of Slugma.

temperatures hot enough to roast foes to a crisp. They

Instead of blood, however, their circulatory systems pump

create these gases by fermenting their food within their

molten-hot lava to transport vital nutrients and minerals

bellies. Meanwhile, their fangs can tear through shells and throughout their bodies. This lava bubbles out of small

exoskeletons with ease. Centiskorch are rightfully feared by pores in their skin, leaving trails of the substance as they

mountain climbers for their extremely hostile

move around. Because of this unique system, Slugma can

temperaments. When they sense intruders, they will launch only live for extended periods of time in very warm areas,

their entire bodies like whips at enemies and then attempt particularly volcanoes. Should they stop moving in cooler

to coil around their foes to burn them alive. Their flattened places, the lava within their bodies will begin to harden,

bodies help them chase enemies into rocky crevices and become brittle, and crumble. The cooler Slugma are, the

nimbly avoid strikes, while their tails act as decoy heads to slower they will move, until they stop moving altogether. In

bait out counterattacks. The only thing these Pokťmon

areas where lava and magma are common, large groups of

truly fear is water, which they will always give a wide berth. Slugma, sometimes numbering in the hundreds, can be

If Centiskorch get wet, they must burn up much of their gas seen congregating where the lava oozes out. In order to

to dry themselves up again, leaving them temporarily

remain healthy, Slugma must dip themselves in lava or

unable to hunt. The ring patterns on their bellies where

magma every so often to replenish the lava lost from

they concentrate their heat are a particular weak spot in traveling.

this regard.

291

Slugma / Magcargo 

Slugma

Fire - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain), Firestarter (can create fire), Heater (always warm), Sinker (can't swim)

Passives: Amnesia (+2 Special Defense), Flame Body (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Burn the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +1)

Smog - Ranged(5ft) Poison Special Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you got 13 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.
Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.
Yawn - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target falls Asleep after its next turn.

Magcargo

Fire / Rock - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 13 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Climber, Firestarter, Groundshaper (can manipulate the ground), Heater, Sinker

Though the shells of Magcargo appear to be solid and rock-hard, they are in fact simply thin shells of cooled lava. Luckily, this does not harm Magcargo, as new lava will simply rise to the top and harden into new shells. Flames periodically spurt from small cracks in their shells; this is their way of disposing of waste, combusting it within their molten shells. Their bodies can reach temperatures hot enough to vaporize water on contact. When it rains, their mere presence can create thick fog that can blanket areas within seconds. Magcargo gradually lose some of their lava and become smaller through simple locomotion as they leave trails. They can return to their original sizes by taking dips in magma pools. Magcargo are almost only found in active volcanic craters, leading some scientists to believe that they adapted their molten bodies to cope with their environment.

Passives: Amnesia, Harden (+1 Defense), Flame Body, Magma Armor (You are immune to being Frozen.), Weak Armor (When you are hit by a melee attack, your Defense is 3 and your Speed is +3 for 10 mins.)
Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +4, Effect +1)
Rock Slide - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Rock Attack: 1/day 5d12. Rock Slide has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Biology: Egg Group - Amorphous / Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore / Saprophyte, Habitat - Volcanoes

Evolution: Slugma

Magcargo

Proficiencies: Fire / Rock (Magcargo)

Flamethrower - Ranged(20ft beam) Fire Special Attack: 3/ day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Earth Power - Ranged(15ft) Ground Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

292

Vulpix / Ninetales 

Vulpix

Fire - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire)

Passives: Baby-Doll Eyes (+1 Defense), Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Flash Fire (You are immune to Fire-type attacks. If you would be hit by a Fire-type attack, your Fire type attacks deal +4 damage for 2 mins.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)

Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.

Ninetales are rare in the wild due to the scarcity of the stones required for their evolutions. Many tales associate bad luck and curses with grabbing one of their tails. It is believed that each of their tails holds a different power; a Ninetales would lay a different curse on a handler depending on which tail was touched. Their fur is said to turn more golden and lustrous the older they become. Ninetales spew enchanting, flickering flames from their mouths to entrance and hypnotize prey before attacking. They can even release a mote of fire that follows their prey until it burns them badly.

Confuse Ray - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target becomes Confused.

Ninetales

Fire - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Firestarter

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Grasslands / Mountains / Volcanoes / Urban Burial

Passives: Baby-Doll Eyes, Tail Whip, Drought (As a free action you may deplete one use of Sunny Day and use Sunny Day.), Flash Fire
Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +5)

Evolution: Vulpix

Fire Stone Ninetales

Proficiencies: Fire / Ghost / Hexwork / Tricky

Flamethrower - Ranged(20ft beam) Fire Special Attack: 3/ day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Will-O-Wisp - Ranged(10ft) Fire Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Burned.

Safeguard - Ranged(10ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Put a Safe Coat on all allies and yourself. The Coat has the following ability: You cannot become afflicted. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

Evolution Shift compatible with Vulpix (Icy Mountain) family (427)
293

Vulpix are born with only a single, white tail. As they

Charcadet are said to be born when burnt charcoal is

mature, their tails split and turn a shade of vermillion that imbued with the spirit of determination. Charcadet are

deepens the more affection the Pokťmon receives. Vulpix resolute fighters that will challenge foes stronger than

have internal flames that never die out, radiating heat

themselves without a second thought. As they continue to

throughout their fur. They may release flames from their fight, their fires increase in temperature. This continues

mouths to expel excess heat and cool themselves down on until they run out of fuel, collapsing from exhaustion.

hot days. They often attack foes with Fire-type techniques, Charcadet forage for fat-rich Berries in order to gather

but also have control over a few Ghost-type moves. To

energy; they also relish the oils made by various Pokťmon.

escape from foes, they may feign injury to buy themselves Once a Charcadet has trained for long enough, it sets off on

time to flee. Though they generally make their homes in

a journey in search of a suit of armor to don. While

grassy plains, as Fire-types, Vulpix also can be found near traveling, the Charcadet will often find a style of fighting it

volcanoes in large populations--and curiously enough, also favors and inevitably will evolve a suit of armor that

near cemeteries. Vulpix can spew fire that are said to resemble lost souls, leading many to believe that they have

resembles its favored battle style.

a very close tie with the spirit world.

294

Charcadet / Armarouge 
/ Ceruledge

Charcadet

Fire - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire)

Passives: Flame Body (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Burn the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.
Astonish - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Clear Smog - Ranged(5ft burst) Poison Special Attack: AtWill 1d12.

Armarouge

Fire / Psychic - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 9

Armarouge will never turn their backs on allies, and will defend those who cannot defend themselves until their last breaths. They are constantly voyaging in search of people and Pokťmon in need. Armarouge fortify their armor with psychic energy, shooting blazing fireballs from their cannon -like arms. The longer they charge up their shots, the larger and hotter these blasts become. However, larger blasts also have longer recharge times, during which Armarouge are very vulnerable to counterattacks.

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 14

Skills: Firestarter

Passives: Calm Mind (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense), Leer (+1 Attack), Flame Body, Flash Fire (You are immune to Fire-type attacks. If you would be hit by a Fire-type attack, your Fire type attacks deal +4 damage for 2 mins.), Weak Armor (When you are hit by a melee attack, your Defense is 3 and your Speed is +3 for 10 mins.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +7, Effect +4)

Ceruledge slice foes mercilessly with their fiery blades; it is said that a slash from a Ceruledge blade not only cuts through one's flesh, but one's life force as well. By flaring up the flames on their blades, they can increase the strength of their attacks further. This burns fuel much more quickly, however, and Ceruledge can risk running out entirely if they expend too much energy at once. These Pokťmon rarely stay in one place for long.

Armor Cannon - Ranged(40ft) Fire Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Defense and Special Defense are -2 for 10 mins.
Mystical Fire - Ranged(20ft) Fire Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.
Expanding Force - Ranged(30ft) Psychic Special Attack: 1/ day 3d12. If you are within Psychic Terrain while using Expanding Force, it deals +2d12 damage on hit.

295

Ceruledge

Fire / Ghost - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 15

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Firestarter, Phasing (can move through solid objects)

Passives: Swords Dance (+2 Attack), Flame Body, Flash Fire, Weak Armor

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Bitter Blade - Melee Fire Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Psycho Cut - Ranged(20ft) Psychic Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Psycho Cut is a critical hit.
Shadow Claw - Melee Ghost Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Shadow Claw is a critical hit.
Biology: Egg Group - Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate - 13 Days, Diet - Terravore, Habitat - Badlands / Caves / Ruins
Evolution: Charcadet Superior Special Attack Armarouge,
Superior Attack Ceruledge
Proficiencies: Fire / Ghost (Ceruledge) / Psychic (Armarouge) / Munition (Armarouge) / Slashing (Ceruledge) / Weird (Ceruledge / Armarouge)

Heatmor can be found in tropical rainforests rooting about the undergrowth in search of their favorite prey, Durant. Heatmor and Durant are famous for being prime examples of an evolutionary "arms race." Scientists believe that Heatmor did not always breathe fire--rather, they evolved to do so when their prey Durant evolved steel exoskeletons. Heatmor breathe through holes in their tails. To attack, they pass some of the air they inhale through a special organ in their bodies that combusts the oxygen in the air, allowing the Pokťmon to spew out flames. If these organs clog up, then Heatmor will quickly fall ill from a lack of sufficient airflow. The insides of a Heatmor are constantly burning, much like a furnace. The tubular structures that run across Heatmor torso facilitate the flow of air within their bodies for respiration and combustion. Heatmor can also spew smoke out of their tails to create diversions against opponents. When hunting, Heatmor use their flaming "tongues" to snake through Durant colonies and melting right through their prey's metallic exoskeletons with ease--though they still must watch out for their powerful mandibles.

296

Heatmor 

Fire - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire), Heater (always warm), Sinker (can't swim)

Passives: Amnesia (+2 Special Defense), Flash Fire (You are immune to Fire-type attacks. If you would be hit by a Firetype attack, your Fire type attacks deal +4 damage for 2 mins.), White Smoke (Your stats cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)
Lick - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d8. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.
Flamethrower - Ranged(20ft beam) Fire Special Attack: 3/ day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Oricorio 

Fire / Flying - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Dancer (Oricorio appearances and types change with the nectars they drink. At least four forms are known: Baile form is Fire-type, Pom-Pom form is Electric-type, Pa'u form is Psychic-type, Sensu form is Ghost-type.), Flight (can fly)

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Growl (+1 Defense), Keen Eye (Your accuracy checks cannot be negatively affected by foes.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)
Air Cutter - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. Air Cutter has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Air Cutter is a critical hit.
Teeter Dance - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, all targets are Confused.
Revelation Dance - Ranged(10ft burst) Fire Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. This attack's type is dependent on your primary type.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Caves / Mountains / Jungle
Proficiencies: Fire / Munition / Slashing

Biology: Egg Group - Flying / Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Meadows
Proficiencies: Fire (Baile) / Flying / Avian / Winged

Oricorio have adapted different forms depending on the kinds of nectar they drink; each one has its own typing and dance style, and Oricorio can swap between them by sipping nectar from different flowers. Fire-typed Baile Style Oricorio have drank red nectar. They are said to be the most passionate, dancing so intensely that they flame up everywhere as they move.
297

Torkoal 

Fire - Small (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 16 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire), Heater (always warm), Sinker (can't swim)

Passives: Amnesia (+2 Special Defense), Iron Defense (+2

Defense), Drought (As a free action you may deplete one use

of Sunny Day and use Sunny Day.), Shell Armor (Critical hits

are treated as normal hits against you.), White Smoke (Your

Torkoal dig through mountains in search of coal. When stats cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.)

they find some, they will store it in their hollow shells. In battle, Torkoal burn coal for energy, releasing smoke from their shells and nostrils. The sound they make when doing so is akin to that of a locomotive horn. Torkoal communicate with using this sound, altering its pitch, duration, and volume to convey different messages. The numerous hex-

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +1)
Fire Spin - Ranged(20ft) Fire Special Attack: 3/day 1d4. On hit, the target is bound in place for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 special damage on its turns.

agonal indents in their shells are also speculated to be used in communication; when Torkoal burn coal, these indents glow with varying intensities depending on how much coal they are burning. The speed at which Torkoal expel smoke is indicative of their health, with healthy Torkoal spewing it out quickly and forcefully. When threatened, Torkoal will use the smoke by exhaling black soot out of their orifices. Then, while attackers are blinded by smoke, they will attempt to flee as quickly as they can- albeit, this isn't very swiftly. Larger Torkoal require more coal

Smoke Screen - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. Place up to 25 contiguous ft of Smoke Screen Wall. Smoke Screen Wall has no thickness, is 12 ft tall and has the following ability: Attacks that target through or within the wall have -2 during Accuracy Check. This Wall disappears after 2 mins.
Flamethrower - Ranged(20ft beam) Fire Special Attack: 3/ day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

to stay active, but can also withstand longer periods of time

without any of it. Torkoal are common sights in coal mines,

with dozens congregating around areas of exposed coal. Biology: Egg Group - Field / Monster, Egg Hatch Rate - 10

Days, Diet - Herbivore / Terravore, Habitat - Volcanoes

Proficiencies: Fire / Rock / Munition

298

Turtonator 

Fire / Dragon - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 16 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire), Heater (always warm), Sinker (can't swim)

Passives: Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Shell Armor (Critical hits are treated as normal hits against you.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +2)

Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.
Dragon Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Turtonator dwell volcanic areas cloaked with noxious fumes. They supplement their diets with a plethora of chemicals produced by volcanoes, primarily sulfuric compounds. Turtonator incorporate these volatile substances into their outer shell coatings. Then, they will lie belly-down on the floor to disguise themselves with rocks.

Shell Trap - Self Fire Special Attack: 1/day. Shell Trap is used as a Reaction. If you would be hit by a melee attack, use Shell Trap to make the attacker take 3d12 Fire-type Special Attack damage after you take the damage and any effects of the triggering attack. You do not need to roll an accuracy check to hit the offender, and they take the damage from Shell Trap even if their attack knocks you out or otherwise prevents you from acting.

When unwary prey wander onto them, Turtonator will strike their shells with their tails to trigger an explosion; their hard carapaces protect them from the impact, but their victims are usually blown apart. Turtonator will also use their explosive shells to shield themselves from attacks. When their spikes are struck, sparks will fly out from them and ignite their shell linings. Turtonator can also expel flames and poisonous gases from their nostrils; even their dung is explosive due to their diets. Turtonator have weak

spots in the centers of their soft bellies, where they funnel

Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 explosive flames from their shells; strikes here will damage

Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Caves / Mountains /

them greatly. Additionally, moisture and humidity severely

Volcanoes

hamper their explosiveness, so Turtonator will seek refuge

Proficiencies: Fire / Dragon / Draconian

in caverns during wet weather.

299

Rookidee / Corvisquire / Corviknight 

Rookidee

Flying - Tiny (Size), Featherlight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Keen Eye (Your accuracy checks cannot be negatively affected by foes.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +1, Effect +3)
Peck - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Fury Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Fury Attack has -2 during Accuracy Check. Fury Attack is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Sand Attack - Ranged(10ft) Ground Effect: At-Will. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.

Corvisquire

Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Flight

Passives: Hone Claws (+2 Attack), Scary Face (+2 Speed), Keen Eye, Unnerve (Foes within 25ft of you cannot consume food.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +5)

Taunt - Ranged(20ft) Dark Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target may only use attacks that target you or your allies for 1 min.

Drill Peck - Melee Flying Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Punishment - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 2d10. Punishment deals an additional 1d10 damage for each Stat Passive the target has.

Despite their small stature, Rookidee are feisty Pokťmon that are always ready for a fight. The size or strength of the opponents does not matter; Rookidee will spar with any foe, and will try to learn from both victories and defeats. By practicing against all sorts of opponents, these Pokťmon learn to adapt their fighting styles to different situations. For instance, Rookidee will use their size and speed to their advantage against bulky opponents, nimbly hopping between their feet to attack weak spots and avoid lumbering strikes. With meeker foes, they will instead try to press the attack to keep them off-balance. They can be a bit too eager when they see supposed openings however, and will often fall for feints.

300

Corvisquire are intelligent Pokťmon that use their wit to obtain the upper hand in battle. They bide their time to analyze how they think foes will act next. Corvisquire are also known for using materials in the surrounding environment as tools both in and out of combat. They will drop stones on enemies from above or circle around them with vines or ropes to entangle them. They will similarly drop rocks onto hard nuts Berries to crack them open, or set simple vine traps across treetops you ensnare other bird Pokťmon intruding into their territory. Corvisquire are known to have long memories. They can watch a person or Pokťmon operate a simple lock mechanism to open a chest of food and then replicate the motions in order to do the same hours later.

Corviknight

Flying / Steel - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 13 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Flight, Intelligence (very smart)

Passives: Hone Claws, Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Scary Face, Keen Eye, Mirror Armor (If your stats would be lowered by a foe's effects, instead that offender's stat is lowered.), Pressure (If you are hit by a 3/day attack, the attacker can't use that attack for the remainder of the day), Unnerve

Corviknight are famed for their combination of strength,

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)

reliability, and intellect. These formidable Pokťmon rule the skies wherever they are found. Their black wings are harder than steel and instantly recognizable to both enemies

Steel Wing - Melee Steel Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

and prey, warning them to steer clear. Corviknight are also Swagger - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the

intelligent creatures, capable of using tools and solving

target is Confused and the target's Attack is +4 until they

problems through intuition. These taciturn Pokťmon are are no longer Confused.

always keenly observing their surroundings.

Corviknight pay attention to the body language of passerby in order to determine whether they intend to cause trouble

Brave Bird - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

before they even pick a fight. Because of their reputation,

Corviknight are commonly used as emblems to represent intellect and power.

Biology: Egg Group - Flying, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Wetlands / Woodlands

Evolution: Rookidee

Corvisquire

Corviknight

Proficiencies: Flying / Steel (Corviknight) / Avian / Winged

This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2. 301

Noibat / Noivern 

Noibat

Flying / Dragon - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Screech (+2 Attack), Infiltrator (Hindering terrain and Walls do not affect you or your attacks.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Supersonic - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. Supersonic has -8 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Wing Attack - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d8.

Noivern

Flying / Dragon - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 14 (70 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Flight, Guster (can produce wind), Telepath (can read minds)
Passives: Screech, Tailwind (+2 Speed), Infiltrator, Telepathy (Your allies within 25ft do not harm you when the ally is using attacks that have an area of effect.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +7)

Noibat can be found in dark caves where little to no light penetrates. Because vision is largely useless in these areas, Noibat have adapted to navigate their surroundings through echolocation. They can produce ultrasonic pitches, far higher than human ears can perceive. Noibat don't create these sound waves from their mouths; instead, the organs that both produce and receive sonic waves are located in their large ears. The pitches that Noibat use for echolocation can be disorienting even to people and Pokťmon that do not consciously hear them. People traveling in Noibat caves often become lost because of the disorienting sounds. Noibat use this ability when threatened to confuse foes and escape. Prolonged exposure to the frequencies at which Noibat echolocate can damage a person's hearing.

Hurricane - Ranged(25ft, 10ft blast) Flying Special Attack: 1/ day 5d12. Hurricane has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Raining. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the targets are Confused.

Biology: Egg Group - Flying / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Caves / Forests

Evolution: Noibat

Noivern

Dragon Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Proficiencies: Dragon / Flying / Draconian (Noivern) / Fangs / Sound / Winged

Boomburst - Ranged(25ft burst) Normal Special Attack: 1/ day 3d12. Anyone within range of Boomburst is cured of Sleep.

302

Bombirdier 

Flying / Dark - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Big Pecks (Your Defense cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.), Keen Eye (Your accuracy checks cannot be negatively affected by foes.), Rocky Payload (Your Rock-type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Rock Tomb - Ranged(15ft) Rock Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit,

Noivern spend the day sleeping in dark caves. At night, particularly on those of new moons, they venture out into forests in search of prey. Noivern use their echolocation to

the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Knock Off - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target drops any held items or weapons.

locate and ambush unsuspecting victims. They emit ultra- Wing Attack - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d8. sonic sound waves from their ears to disorient prey before

they swoop in. These Pokťmon also enjoy eating many

different kinds of fruits and berries. They can create sonic Biology: Egg Group - Flying, Egg Hatch Rate - 13 Days, Diet -

waves powerful enough to shatter stone. Noivern tend to Omnivore, Habitat - Grasslands / Mountains

be aggressive Pokťmon that will indiscriminately attack those who enter their territories. They are even known to Proficiencies: Dark / Flying / Rock / Avian / Winged

be cruel, tormenting small Pokťmon lost in the dark for

pleasure. A peace offering of fruit, however, will often be

enough to calm hostile Noivern down. In battle, Noivern

can utilize many sound-based attacks to bring down foes.

They communicate warnings to other Noivern about terri-

torial boundaries using sonar; those unfortunate enough to

be caught between two conflicting Noivern may sometimes

faint from dizziness.

Bombirdier are easily identifiable when spotted in the sky due to their aprons, made of shed feathers tucked into their chest feathers. They bundle food in their aprons and bunch them up with their mouths, carrying their hauls back to their nests on seaside cliffs and riverbanks. In addition to food, however, Bombirdier also love to carry heavy things like stones in their aprons. They do not bring these back home, however; instead, they enjoy dropping them midflight and hearing the loud crashes they make when they land. These Pokťmon have a mean streak and do not particularly care whether they damage property or hit living things with their payloads. While they seem to primarily do this for enjoyment, some Bombirdier will carefully aim their stones to knock out unwary prey beneath. Bombirdier are infamously the culprits behind many unexplained phenomena like raining fish in the middle of fields.
303

Cramorant 

Flying / Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 12

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Flight (can fly), Fountain (can create water), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Amnesia (+2 Special Defense), Gulp Missile

(Whenever Cramorant goes underwater, it gathers waste in

its mouth. When hit by an attack within 30ft while Cramorant

has waste, Cramorant ejects the waste at the offender, deal-

Cramorant nest on seaside bluffs in large, raucous colonies. They glide high above the waves in search of under-

ing 4 damage or 8 damage if Cramorant has less than 20 HP. Waste is held for up to five minutes.)

water prey. When they sense movement beneath, they will

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +4)

dive beak-first to snap up their catches. When diving in, Cramorant have been known to catch seaweed, trash, or

Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.

even non-aquatic swimming Pokťmon by mistake. Cramo- Drill Peck - Melee Flying Attack: 3/day 3d10.

rant are greedy eaters that will often try to swallow prey while, leading to them getting their catches stuck in their throats. Their wide airways prevent them from choking, however, so these obstructions do not bother them much. Cramorant can dislodge stuck prey to attack; more graphically, they can also regurgitate the partially-digested con-

Thrash - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. Thrash is a two -turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.

tents of their stomachs. Cramorant can be surprisingly

strong in battle, but they are not the brightest; they have been known to forgot who or why they are even fighting Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Flying, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 mid-battle, especially when they are hungry. They will never Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Beaches / Polar

forget the face of someone that tries to steal their food.

Proficiencies: Flying / Water / Avian / Glutton / Winged

These Pokťmon secrete an oil that coats their feathers and

keeps them from getting waterlogged when diving.

304

Flamigo 

Flying / Fighting - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Flight (can fly), Strength (very strong)

Passives: Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Costar (At the start of combat, copy a stat passive from your nearest ally until the end of combat.), Scrappy (Your Normal-type and Fighting-type attacks can hit Ghosttype targets.), Tangled Feet (While you are confused, any foe's attacks made against you have -1 during accuracy check.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Double Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 2d8. Double Kick is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.

Brave Bird - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

Roost - Self Flying Effect: 1/day. You must be on the ground to use Roost. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP. You lose Flying-type until your next turn.

Biology: Egg Group - Flying, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Marsh / Ponds / Swamp
Proficiencies: Fighting / Flying / Avian / Kicks / Winged

Flamigo live in large flocks by the water's edge. While they appear unassuming, these Pokťmon in fact possess immense strength, made even more potent by the fact that Flamigo flocks always act in unison. Flamigo are known for their perfect synchronization, allowing entire groups to move, eat, and even breathe in exact time with one another. In combat, this means that being attacked by a Flamigo in the wild invariably results in receiving dozens of blows at once. Because of this, it is very rare for predators to go after Flamigo unless they are confident they can pull off an ambush and get away with it quickly. Flamigo are said to store energy in their bellies, keeping their necks tied in a knot to prevent it from leaking out. These Pokťmon have a curious habit of standing on one leg; studies have shown that this behavior limits heat loss since only one foot is submerged in the cooler water at a time.

305

Duskull / Dusclops / Dusknoir 

Duskull

Ghost - Small (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 12 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Hover (can hover), Invisibility (can turn invisible), Phasing (can move through solid objects), Tough Cookie (lowers chance of death)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Levitate (You are immune to Ground-type moves while you are airborne.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +1, Effect +1)
Shadow Sneak - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 2d6. Shadow Sneak has Priority.
Pursuit - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d6. Pursuit deals +6 damage to a target if they ended their turn further away from you during the start of their turn.
Disable - Ranged(20ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. For 1 minute, the attack last used by the target may not be used again.

Dusclops

Ghost - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 13 Special Defense: 13

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Hover, Invisibility, Phasing
Passives: Leer, Levitate, Pressure (If you are hit by a 3/day attack, the attacker can't use that attack for the remainder of the day.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +1)

Shadow Punch - Melee Ghost Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense.
Will-O-Wisp - Ranged(10ft) Fire Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Burned.
Confuse Ray - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target becomes Confused.

Duskull are nocturnal Pokťmon, spending the day resting within tree hollows. They have the ability to become invisible and intangible to pass through walls and solid objects. Duskull feed on the spirits of living beings; once they spot prey, they will chase them down relentlessly until the break of dawn; Duskull cannot tolerate light, so if they have not caught their targets by sunrise, they will reluctantly return empty-handed to their nests. Duskull only have one red eye that floats between their two eye sockets. Making eye contact with them is said to give others a chilling feeling down their spine. Curiously, they appear to enjoy the crying of young children. They will startle unruly kids by materializing in their bedrooms and then disappearing when their parents come nearby.

306

Dusclops are feared Pokťmon, found patrolling ominous woods once night falls. Their bodies are thought to be completely hollow, with only spectral balls of fire burning within. They are said to absorb will-o'-the-wisps to fuel this fire. Those that gaze into their singular red eyes are said to be able to glimpse these flames. Dusclops can disorient foes by waving their hands around in a ghastly manner. Dusclops can take smaller inanimate objects into its body and they vanish never to be seen again. No one knows where the objects that Dusclops absorb go. Some believe that they transport these items to the spirit world, while others believe they take them to a purgatory, where they wait aimlessly in limbo for the rest of eternity.

Dusknoir

Ghost - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 14 Special Defense: 14

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Hover, Invisibility, Phasing

Passives: Leer, Levitate, Pressure

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Hex - Ranged(15ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the

Dusknoir are strongly associated with death in popular culture. They are thought to be able to travel freely between this world and the spirit world, taking anything or anyone within the mouth-like openings on their stomachs

target is afflicted, Hex has 5d8 for damage instead.
Shadow Ball - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

with them. They are believed to only take souls with them to the spirit world. The antennae on their heads are said to pick up electrical signals from the world of the dead; these signals are instructions for them to carry out in the physical

Payback - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. If you were attacked by the target this round, use 3d12 for damage instead.

world. Dusknoir guide lost spirits into the spirit world by

placing them into the orifices on their stomachs and ferry-

ing them out of this realm. They always seem to have agen-

das to carry out, only leading certain spirits and certain

Biology: Egg Group - Amorphous, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days,

times while leaving others alone. If their antennae are dam- Diet - Nullivore / Psiotroph, Habitat - Badlands / Forests /

aged, they will begin to wander about aimlessly in the phys- Woodlands

ical world until they heal. Some say that these Pokťmon have no wills of their own, instead only carrying out the

Evolution: Duskull

Dusclops

Dusknoir

orders they receive from afar. Many legends tell of

Proficiencies: Dark / Ghost / Psychic / Hexwork

Dusknoir taking living spirits to the world of the dead for

/ Punches (Dusclops / Dusknoir)

various reasons: to reunite with lost loved ones, to punish

dark souls, or even to show them glimpses of their inevita-

ble futures.

307

Gastly / Haunter / Gengar 

Gastly

Ghost / Poison - Medium (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 18 Defense: 3 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Flight (can fly), Invisibility (can turn invisible), Phasing (can move through solid objects)

Passives: Levitate (You are immune to Ground-type moves while you are airborne.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)
Lick - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d8. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Confuse Ray - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target becomes Confused.
Mean Look - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is bound in place for 2 mins. Ghost Pokťmon are immune to Mean Look.

Haunter

Ghost / Poison - Medium (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 12

Skills: Flight, Invisibility, Phasing

Passives: Levitate

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +6, Effect +5)
Shadow Punch - Melee Ghost Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense.

Gastly are amorphous Pokťmon with no definite shape. Their bodies consist almost entirely of gas. Their gaseous bodies enable them to slip through tiny cracks. However, they also allow them to be blown away by strong winds. To protect themselves, Gastly hide in abandoned buildings or under the eaves of houses. They capture prey by enveloping them in their gas, which can seep through skin and cause nausea. Despite their poor reputation, Gastly are not blatantly malicious and do not haunt beings with the intent of harming them. Instead, they are mischievous pranksters who enjoy startling others. Their pranks can be annoying at times, so it should be noted that oscillating fans are very effective at warding Gastly away because the Pokťmon steer clear of strong winds. When Gastly are near, it is said the air will smell faintly sweet.

Hypnosis - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Effect: 3/day. Hypnosis has -4 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is put Asleep.

Payback - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. If you were attacked by the target this round, use 3d12 for damage instead.

308

Haunter are able to phase through solid objects, like walls. They feed on the life force of living things, waiting in the darkness for unwary prey to wander by. Then, they sneak up on their victims and lick them. This causes uncontrollable shuddering in their prey, who are slowly drained of life force. Haunter are pranksters. They may trip unwary travelers or place ghostly hands on their shoulders to scare them. When a Haunter is around, those nearby feel paranoid, as if they are being watched. Haunter can also feed on fear. Though research has shown that such a diet is not very energy-efficient, it is believed that some Haunter have learned to feed on these feelings because they are sustainable; some Haunter have successfully used cities as farms of sorts, scaring people as necessary and feeding on their fright. Since Haunter detest light, well-lit towns are usually devoid of them.

Gengar

Ghost / Poison - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 13

Skills: Flight, Invisibility, Phasing

Passives: Cursed Body (When you are hit by a foe's melee attack, disable that attack for 10 mins. Cursed Body can only affect one attack at a time.), Levitate

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +6, Effect +5)

Shadow Ball - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Gengar draw heat from others; when one is near, those around it can feel slight chills as the temperature drops. They may even try to lay curses on those who walk alone near them. Gengar are most active during full moons,

Dream Eater - Melee Psychic Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Dream Eater can only hit Sleeping targets. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Dark Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dark Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.

creeping out in the dead of night and disguising themselves On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the taras shadows; they may even enters sleeping homes to lurk get is Stunned.

in the dark. They will mimic every movement their targets

make until they lower their guards. Then, they strike, drain-

ing their life force as sustenance. Gengar are also said to Biology: Egg Group - Amorphous, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days,

attack those who are hopelessly lost and afraid in the

Diet - Nullivore / Psiotroph, Habitat - Forests / Urban Buri-

mountains. Many Gengar have learned to feed on fear,

al / Urban Abandoned

simply following victims in the shadows and mimicking them almost, but not quite perfectly. This cultivates great

Evolution: Gastly

Haunter

Gengar

paranoia in victims, which they can then feast on. Other

Proficiencies: Ghost / Poison / Elemental Attack E

tricks Gengar have been known to use include: laughing

/ Hexwork / Punches (Haunter / Gengar) / Tricky

maniacally in the shadows, lighting their red eyes in the

darkness, and chanting mysteriously in the distance.

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2.
309

Litwick / Lampent / Chandelure 

Litwick

Ghost / Fire - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 3

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire), Flight (can fly), Glow (can produce light)

Passives: Flame Body (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Burn the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +3, Effect +1)

Astonish - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Smog - Ranged(5ft) Poison Special Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you got 13 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

Lampent

Ghost / Fire - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Firestarter, Flight, Glow

Passives: Flame Body, Flash Fire (You are immune to Firetype attacks. If you would be hit by a Fire-type attack, your Fire type attacks deal +4 damage for 2 mins.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)

At a first glance, a distant Litwick may appear to simply be an ordinary, unlit candle. However, approach it and it will suddenly spring alive, its wick bursting into flames as it smiles cheerfully. This is the primary hunting strategy of Litwick; when living things approach, they light up and pretend to guide them through dark areas, or provide them warmth during a cold night. They are absorbing and burning the life energy of these beings as fuel. Litwick will intentionally take wrong turns and go in circles to stall time as they continue to burn life energy. If a Litwick runs out of this energy, its flame will go out, and it will need to absorb more lifer force in order to light up again. Litwick are said to especially prefer luring away children, as younger lives give them more energy. They will even take young children by the hand to ensure that they follow along to play.

Will-O-Wisp - Ranged(10ft) Fire Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Burned.

Flame Burst - Ranged(20ft, 5ft blast) Fire Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8.

Hex - Ranged(15ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target is afflicted, Hex has 5d8 for damage instead.

310

Lampent are feared in many cultures around the world for being omens of death, and for good reason. These Pokťmon can sense when death is imminent; they will appear on the deathbeds of beings to drain them as fuel for their fires. Lampent used to be found primarily in the deepest parts of dark woods, but now can also be seen in urban areas, oftentimes clustered near hospitals with deathly-ill patients. They are also found wandering dark alleys near the houses of the sick and elderly. Lampent are so strongly associated with death in some areas that lanterns in graveyards have been modeled after them. In modern times, Lampent have even been known to pose as lamps while trailing behind those not long for this world.

Chandelure

Ghost / Fire - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 15

Skills: Firestarter, Flight, Glow

Passives: Flame Body, Flash Fire, Infiltrator (Hindering terrain and Walls do not affect you or your attacks.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +7, Effect +4)

Inferno - Ranged(40ft) Fire Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. In-

Chandelure are exceedingly rare in the wild. They primarily inhabit abandoned mansions and large manors.

ferno has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Burned.

These Pokťmon are frightening hunters that are willing to Shadow Ball - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day

go after just about any living being to feed. When Chande- 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10

lure finds victims, they will begin to wave their flames

mins.

around in mesmerizing dances. These movements are, for unknown reasons, very hypnotic and compelling. As they continue to dance, they will begin to cloak their prey in mysterious, bluish-purple flames. These flames do not feel hot or painful and do not leave any physical traces of harm;

Pain Split - Melee Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, you and target's current HPs are added together and halved, assigning both you and the target that new value. Neither can have their new HPs be more than their Max.

instead, they burn the life energy of victims and transfers it

to themselves to burn as fuel. After the process is com-

Biology: Egg Group - Amorphous, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days,

plete, the Chandelure float away, leaving very exhausted Diet - Ergovore / Psiotroph, Habitat - Urban Abandoned /

prey drained of their spirit energy behind. It is said that

Woodlands

those overly drained by Chandelure in this manner are doomed to wander this world in a state of limbo, where

Evolution: Litwick Lampent Dusk Stone Chandelure

they no longer have a spirit at all. It is said that houses that Proficiencies: Ghost / Fire / Hexwork / Weird

experience frequent tragedy may in fact be home to a fur-

tive Chandelure.

311

Corsola (Dead Seas) / Cursola 

Corsola (Dead Seas)

Ghost - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Harden (+1 Defense), Weak Armor (When you are hit by a melee attack, your Defense is -3 and your Speed is +3 for 10 mins.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +1)
Curse - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. Curse can only be used by Ghost-Type Pokťmon. On hit, you lose hit points equal to 1/3rd of your max HP, then the target is Cursed.
Ancient Power - Ranged(10ft) Rock Special Attack: 1/day 2d8. On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour.
Hex - Ranged(15ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target is afflicted, Hex has 5d8 for damage instead.

Cursola

Ghost - Medium (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 13

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 15

Skills: Gilled, Swimmer

Passives: Harden, Weak Armor, Perish Body (When you are hit by a melee attack, the offender receives 3 Perish Coats. The Coat has the following ability: After acting, destroy one of your Perish Coats. If this is the third Perish Coat you've destroyed this way during this encounter, set your HP to 0.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +7, Effect +1)

Perish Song - Ranged(40ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. All possible Pokťmon targets including yourself receive 3 Perish Coats. The Coats have the following ability: After acting, destroy one of your Perish Coats. If this is the third Perish Coat you've destroyed this way during this encounter, set your HP to 0.

Corsola that live in heavily polluted seas or overheated oceans resemble bleached stones; when bothered, however, their ghostly tendrils will emerge out of their holes like intangible branches of coral. It is said that these Pokťmon will curse those who disturb them from their rests. These Corsola are thought to have died out due to a climate change event in the distant past, rendering the waters inhospitable. Relatedly, populations of these Pokťmon skyrocketed in the wake of the Industrial Revolution as factory runoff spilled into seas. Though their horns are incorporeal, it is said that touching these Corsola horn will cause it to latch onto one's spirit and drain away at one's life force, unable to be removed.
Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Water 3, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Phototroph, Habitat - Beaches / Ocean Reefs / Oceans

Power Gem - Ranged(20ft) Rock Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. Evolution: Corsola (Dead Seas)

Cursola

Strength Sap - Melee Grass Effect: 1/day. On hit, you are healed HP equal to the target's Attack stat, then the target's Attack is -2 for 10 mins.

Proficiencies: Ghost / Rock / Water / Elemental Attack I / Hexwork / Prickly

Evolution Shift compatible with Corsola (713)
312

Cursola are mere husks of their former selves, instead relying on ectoplasm to protect themselves from harm. They can often be found congregated as ghostly reefs in areas that once were full of oceanic life, bobbing up and down. This includes both areas that were underwater in prehistoric times as well as places that have lost their Corsola due to climate change and pollution. At night, Cursola reefs can be heard crying plaintively in unison; it is said that they are mourning the losses of their old habitats. On nights of the full moon, reefs will beam shining lights of energy towards the sky. Whether this is to release excess energy or to communicate with other Cursola is unknown, but it is a beautiful sight nonetheless. Historians believe that Cursola outbreaks will play a significant role in convincing the public that environmental regulations are necessary to rein in factory pollution.

Drifloon float aimlessly in small groups, flying wherever the wind blows. They are more common in humid weather. They are believed to converse by expanding and deflating their air-filled bodies. Drifloon are thought to be always be floating towards the world of the dead, so spirits lost on earth can follow them to the underworld. They feed on the psychic energy around people experiencing joy. Since young children often like balloons, Drifloon will follow children who will happily grab them only to experience a blank feeling as their joy from finding a balloon is immediately drained from them.

313

Drifloon / Drifblim 

Drifloon

Ghost / Flying - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 3 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Flight (can fly), Guster (can produce wind), Inflatable (can expand), Shrinkable (can shrink)

Passives: Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Aftermath (When knocked out by a melee attack, the attacker loses 1d20 HP.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Gust - Ranged(20ft) Flying Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. If the target is at least 20 ft off the ground airborne, Gust deals +1d20 damage.

Payback - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. If you were attacked by the target this round, use 3d12 for damage instead.

Ominous Wind - Ranged(10ft) Ghost Special Attack: 1/day 2d8. On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour.

Drifblim

Ghost / Flying - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 90 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Flight, Guster, Inflatable, Shrinkable

Passives: Amnesia (+2 Special Defense), Focus Energy, Aftermath, Flare Boost (While Burned, your Special Attack is +4.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +4)

Drifblim tend to make their flight very erratic and unpredictable. Drifblim can inflate and deflate their bodies with gas to adjust their altitudes, flap their arms to influence their direction of flight, and they can control air current near them to blow exactly where they want to go. Drifblim float in large groups across clear skies; during the daytime, they are often drowsy and lethargic, aloof to the weather and environment around them. They become more active at dusk, however. Mysteriously, entire groups of Drifblim seem to simply disappear when observed; no one knows where they go or how they vanish so suddenly, though according to folklore they are in fact traveling across the boundary to the spirit realm. Some say that riding a Drifblim on the winds at dusk will result in a one-way trip to the afterlife. Drifblim can summon mysterious wind attacks to weaken foes; they appear to be a docile species in the wild, however.

Hex - Ranged(15ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target is afflicted, Hex has 5d8 for damage instead.
Phantom Force - Melee Ghost Attack: 1/day 3d12. Phantom Force is a two-turn move. On the first turn, disappear from the battlefield. On the second turn, reappear anywhere within 25 ft of where you vanished, move up to twice your movement speed, and roll Phantom Force's Accuracy Check and damage.

Biology: Egg Group - Amorphous, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Nullivore / Psiotroph, Habitat - Mountains / Volcanoes

Evolution: Drifloon

Drifblim

Proficiencies: Ghost / Flying / Elemental Attack E / Hexwork

Knock Off - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target drops any held items or weapons.

314

Greavard / Houndstone 

Greavard

Ghost - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Burrow (moves through earth easily), Tracker (can follow scents)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Fluffy (If hit by a melee attack, you only take half the damage. If hit by a Fire-type attack, you take twice the damage.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +1, Effect +1)

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Lick - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d8. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Dig - Melee Ground Attack: 3/day 3d10. Dig is a two-turn move. On the first turn, burrow up to 40 ft straight down. On the second turn, burrow up to your movement speed +40 ft, then you can roll Dig's Accuracy Check and damage.

According to legend, Greavard are born when lonely dog Pokťmon die without ever having found a human companion. Because of this, these Pokťmon absolutely adore people; if given even the slightest shred of affection, they will bond immediately and begin following their new friend endlessly. Greavard spend much of their time buried underground with only their candle-like growths poking out. When they sense someone approaching, they will jump out excitedly with a ghostly bark that frequently startles their new friend. Unfortunately, the candles on their heads actually slowly burn life force, so playing with Greavard for long periods of time will cause a person to grow tired and fall unconscious--eventually never to wake again. Greavard are not aware of this, however, and will pitifully sit resolutely by the person's side while trying to wake them, to no avail. The secret to playing with Greavard is to keep a close eye on their flames; when they are small, the Greavard is well-fed and will drain little, if any, life force. When large, however, they will burn life force very quickly from those nearby.

Houndstone

Ghost - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Burrow, Tracker

Passives: Charm (+1 Defense), Tail Whip, Fluffy, Sand Rush (While in Sandstorming Weather, your Speed is +2 and you don't take damage from Sandstorming weather.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)

Play Rough - Melee Fairy Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Helping Hand - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. Target ally's next attack during this round will deal +1d20 damage.

Last Respects - Melee Ghost Attack: 1/day 1d12. Last Respects deals +1d12 damage for each ally who has been knocked out this encounter (max +7d12).

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Terravore, Habitat - Caves / Mountains / Ruins / Tundra

Evolution: Greavard

Houndstone

Proficiencies: Ghost / Fangs / Stampeding (Houndstone)

315

Houndstone no longer drain energy from those around

Misdreavus live in dark, dreary forests and caves. They startle unwary travelers to feed on their fear, which they

them, as they have gathered enough as Greavard. Like

store in the red orbs around their necks. It is said that one

their pre-evolutions, these Pokťmon spend a lot of time

can hear shrieking emanating from these orbs if one sets

buried in the earth with only their tombstone-like protuber- his or her ears next to them. In order to elicit the emotions,

ances sticking out of the soil. They frequently sleep in

they require to feed, Misdreavus may try a variety of tac-

graveyards, blending in seamlessly with their surroundings. tics. The simplest trick they use is materializing right in

They do not like anyone touching these growths, even their front of travelers to startle them. Other ploys include pull-

trainers. Though the etchings on the protuberances do not ing hair, lighting up their orbs in total darkness, and laugh-

seem to be meaningful according to researchers, some say ing maniacally under cover of the night. Their most famous

they list the people and Pokťmon who provided them with tactic, however, is letting loose unearthly howls, screams,

life force as Greavard. Houndstone certainly do seem to

cries, or wails that can be heard in the woods they haunt,

remember everyone they played with prior to evolution, no thoroughly disturbing any living beings that are unfortu-

matter how many years have passed. Houndstone are said nate enough to hear them. Misdreavus appear to take

to be the most loyal of all dog Pokťmon. According to leg- pleasure in creating mischief, sometimes playing tricks on

end, particularly-loved dog Pokťmon are reborn directly as others just for fun and not even feeding on the subsequent

Houndstone without ever having been Greavard.

emotions that they cause. Conversely, they can get upset

when confronted with individuals that they are unable to

scare. They are solely nocturnal and will sleep in dark caves

and tree hollows during the day. In fact, Misdreavus appear

to be actively harmed by rays of sunlight, becoming ex-

tremely lethargic and dull when exposed to it for prolonged

periods of time.

316

Misdreavus / Mismagius 

Misdreavus

Ghost - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Flight (can fly), Invisibility (can turn invisible), Phasing (can move through solid objects), Telepath (can read emotions)

Passives: Levitate (You are immune to Ground-type moves while you are airborne.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +4)

Astonish - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Mean Look - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is bound in place for 2 mins. Ghost Pokťmon are immune to Mean Look.

Mismagius can occasionally be seen floating around dark forests in the dead of night. Their cries sound like ominous chanting. Those who hear their cries may experience symptoms like hallucinations and headaches. It is said that their chants can be cast as curses or blessings on others, depending on how they are feeling. Those under their spells will remain entranced until the Mismagius that cast the spells are fainted, or until they decide to break the hexes on their own. Though feared in the past for their curses, desperate souls also sought out Mismagius for their rumored abilities to bless love, health, and fortune. Since wild Mismagius are repelled by light, villagers kept burning stakes in the centers of their town to keep them away. In modern times, city lights generally keep Mismagius out of urban areas, and most prefer to stay away from humans anyways.

Confuse Ray - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target becomes Confused.

Mismagius

Ghost - Medium (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Flight, Invisibility, Phasing, Telepath

Passives: Levitate

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)

Psybeam - Ranged(15ft beam) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Biology: Egg Group - Amorphous, Egg Hatch Rate - 13 Days, Diet - Nullivore / Psiotroph, Habitat - Caves / Forests / Woodlands

Evolution: Misdreavus

Dusk Stone Mismagius

Proficiencies: Ghost / Psychic / Elemental Attack E / Hexwork / Spellcraft / Weird

Shadow Ball - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Lucky Chant - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 3/day. Put a Lucky Coat on all allies and yourself. The Coat has the following ability: If you are hit by a Critical Hit, treat the hit as a regular successful hit. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

317

Phantump / Trevenant 

Phantump

Ghost / Grass - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Hover (can hover), Sprouter (can manipulate plant life)

Passives: Growth (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Natural Cure (Whenever returned to a Poke Ball, you are cured of any afflictions.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Confuse Ray - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target becomes Confused.

Astonish - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Leech Seed - Ranged(10ft) Grass Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target gets a Seed Coat. The Coat has the following ability: At the beginning of your turn, if you are within 20 ft of the enemy who gave you the Seed Coat, you lose 1d12 HP. The enemy who gave you the Seed Coat will gain the same amount of HP that you lost. This Coat lasts for 3 mins, or until you are at 0 or less HP.
Trevenant
Ghost / Grass - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight) Hit Points: 54 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8

Phantump sound strikingly similar to scared children crying out in distress. These Pokťmon are said to use their cries to lure people and Pokťmon looking to help lost children into the woods. Phantump can feel their victim's distress and feed on the psychic confusion and panic of their prey. Phantump themselves seem to always be very hesitant to leave the woods in which they dwell, but they can be lured out by others playing and laughing. Phantump float around while investigating their winding woods until they're tired. They find a stump to rest their heads and begin crying out to summon victims to feed on.

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Sprouter

Passives: Growth, Harvest (When using a Berry, you only use half of it while still gaining its full effects. You can only use half of a Berry if you have Harvest.), Natural Cure

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)

Biology: Egg Group - Grass / Amorphous, Egg Hatch Rate 10 Days, Diet - Phototroph / Psiotroph, Habitat - Forests / Woodlands

Evolution: Phantump

Trevenant

Proficiencies: Ghost / Grass / Psychic / Hexwork

Shadow Claw - Melee Ghost Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Shadow Claw is a critical hit.

Forest's Curse - Ranged(15ft) Grass Effect: 3/day. On hit, put a Forest Coat on the target. The Coat has the following ability: You lose your current Types and become only Grass-type for 10 mins.

Wood Hammer - Melee Grass Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

318

Trevenant can be found in dark, eerie woods, where they form a vital part of local ecosystems. In addition to providing shelter for a number of different Pokťmon, they are also capable of manipulating trees by extending their nerve-containing roots underground to attach to other roots like makeshift nervous systems of sorts. This ability allows Trevenant to protect their forests from attackers, shifting trees to block entrances and exits. If someone attempts to harm their forests, Trevenant will punish them by cursing and trapping them in the woods, unable to escape the moving trees. Despite their ominous reputations, Trevenant are very kind to the Pokťmon that dwell on their bodies and in their forests and will not bother those who do not try to endanger them.

Pumpkaboo remain active throughout the night. They are most restless, however, just as the sun sets and twilight arrives. Their gourd bodies can vary considerably in size and weight. Though unable to enter the spirit world themselves, Pumpkaboo are thought to act as guides, leading recently-deceased souls to places where they can move on. The lights on these Pokťmon's bodies are thought to show lost spirits the path to the spirit world; for this reason, living travelers who encounter these lights try to avoid them whenever possible. Some believe that Pumpkaboo can hypnotize those that stare into these lights for too long. When daylight approaches, Pumpkaboo settle down, rest, and wait for the sun to set again. They sleep, like pumpkins, on the dirt in fields and rural areas.

319

Pumpkaboo / Gourgeist 

Pumpkaboo (Small)

Gourgeist (Small)

Ghost / Grass - Tiny (Size), Light (Weight)

Ghost / Grass - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 4

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 6

Pumpkaboo (Medium) - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Gourgeist (Medium) - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 7 Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Defense: 6 Special Attack: 4

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 12 Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Defense: 8 Special Attack: 6

Pumpkaboo (Large) - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Gourgeist (Large) - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 4

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Glow (can produce light), Hover (can hover), Pumpkin Sized (depending on your size, your stats vary), Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)
Passives: Scary Face (+2 Speed), Insomnia (You are immune to being put to Sleep.)
Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +4/+3)
Trick - Melee Psychic Effect: 1/day. On hit, you and the target trade any held items. If only you or the target has an item, take or give the item to exchange who has possession of it.
Astonish - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Skills: Glow, Hover, Pumpkin Sized, Telekinetic
Passives: Scary Face, Insomnia
Moves (Attack +4/+5, Special Attack +3, Effect +5/+4/+3)
Shadow Ball - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Seed Bomb - Ranged(15ft) Grass Attack: 3/day 3d10.
Trick-or-Treat - Melee Ghost Effect: 3/day. On hit, put a Treat Coat on the target. The Coat has the following ability: You lose your current Types and become only Ghosttype for 10 mins.

Razor Leaf - Ranged(25ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Razor Leaf is a critical hit.

Gourgeist come in a range of different sizes and weights; larger Gourgeist tend to be more durable, but slower, while smaller ones are more agile, but frailer. Gourgeist were feared in the past by villagers and townspeople who lived near their habitats. On nights of the new moon, these Pokťmon would wander throughout city streets singing an eerie, blood-chilling song that was thought to curse those who heard it. While their cries do not curse others, the unsettling feeling one gets gives energy to the Gourgeist as they feed off the paranoia they created. Wild Pumpkaboo dislike light and fire; ironically Pumpkaboo are repelled by pumpkins carved by humans.

Biology: Egg Group - Amorphous / Grass, Egg Hatch Rate 10 Days, Diet - Phototroph / Psiotroph, Habitat - Forests / Woodlands

Evolution: Pumpkaboo

Gourgeist

Proficiencies: Ghost / Grass / Elemental Attack F / Hexwork

320

Sandygast / Palossand 

Sandygast

Ghost / Ground - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Amorphous (can move as piles of shifting sand), Groundshaper (can manipulate the ground), Burrow (moves through earth easily)

Passives: Harden (+1 Defense), Water Compaction (When a foe hits you with a Water-type attack, your Defense is +2 for 10 mins.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +1)

Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Sand Tomb - Ranged(10ft) Ground Attack: 3/day 1d4. On hit, the target is bound in place for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 physical damage on its turns.

Sandygast are mounds of sand possessed by the manifested grudges of people and Pokťmon. Sandygast dwell on sandy beaches, where they blend in perfectly with their surroundings. They use their bright red shovels to lure in small children; those who grab their shovels fall under their influences and are compelled to begin adding more sand to their bodies, making them larger. If a Sandygast loses its shovel, it may instead temporarily use a tree branch, flag, or other sturdy object it finds on the shore until it can find its shovel again. They are very protective of these tools and will try their best to fight to regain them if stolen. Sandygast can suck the psychic life force of living beings with their gaping mouths. Beach-going parents warn their children to not play with wild Sandygast or grab their red shovels. Children playing on beaches where Sandygast are known to be found are warned to knock down piles of sand they build before leaving in order to prevent new Sandygast from manifesting, though Sandygast are also born from eggs.

Bulldoze - Ranged(20ft burst) Ground Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, all target's Speed are -1 for 10 mins.

Palossand

Ghost / Ground - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 13 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Amorphous, Groundshaper, Burrow

Passives: Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Sand Veil (While in Sandstorming Weather, any foe's attacks made against you have -1 during accuracy check. and you don't take damage from Sandstorming weather.), Water Compaction

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +2)
Shadow Ball - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Amorphous / Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Psiotroph, Habitat - Beaches

Evolution: Sandygast

Palossand

Proficiencies: Ghost / Ground / Rock / Parasitic

Earth Power - Ranged(15ft) Ground Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Shore Up - Self Ground Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP. If you are within Sandstorming Weather, you are healed HP equal to 3/4ths of your Max HP instead.

321

Palossand are now strong enough to compel adults as

Shuppet live in urban areas around humans, becoming

well as children to build themselves larger; they can also active when night falls. They travel streets and alleys in

build themselves up with sand on their own without having search of sustenance; Shuppet feed on the negative

to wait for others to grab their shovels. Their shovels are no emotions of jealousy, sadness, hate, and vengefulness.

longer even used for possession; instead, they slowly spin They use the horns on their heads to collect and feed on

around and function as radars to help Palossand locate

these emotions. In particular, they will congregate in large

prey. These Pokťmon blend in seamlessly with the sand as numbers under the eaves of the houses of people that hold

they search for food; it is said that each one of their

long grudges. Shuppet enjoy pulling pranks, feeding on the

individual grains is animated with its own life force. When feelings of sorrow or disappointment that often follow.

Palossand find small Pokťmon, they can create powerful They cannot tolerate light for long, hiding in the shadows

whirlpools of sand to drag them down. They drain their

during the day. It is said that though Shuppet may appear

prey's life forces. If the prey can't bring itself to escape after evil because of their ability to feed on hateful emotions,

mentally drained, they suffocate underground. Palossand they act out due to their loneliness. In fact, Shuppet can

can use damp sand to strengthen their bodies. Drawing too close to the crashing waves, however, can erode away at their crumbly forms.

cause people to forgive others by literally consuming their grudges, and some even welcome them for this reason.

322

Shuppet / Banette 

Shuppet

Ghost - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Flight (can fly), Invisibility (can turn invisible), Phasing (can move through solid objects)

Passives: Screech (+2 Attack), Insomnia (You are immune to being put to Sleep.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Shadow Sneak - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 2d6. Shadow Sneak has Priority.
Knock Off - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target drops any held items or weapons.
Will-O-Wisp - Ranged(10ft) Fire Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Burned.

Banette

Banette are found in dark alleys, often near dumpsters or piles of trash. Banette feed on vengeance and jealousy. They play cruel pranks to generate these emotions in unsuspecting Pokťmon and people. Their entire beings are powered by vengefulness. Often, wild Banette will target individuals at random to torment and pester for the evening with little direction, reason, nor rhyme for their acts of vengeance. The Banette feeds on the frustration and despair and often victims are left with feelings of empty anger and lost confusion. Wild Banette dislike being exposed to light for long periods of time so cities do their best to make sure that streets where Banette are known to roam are as well lit as possible.

Ghost - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 14

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Flight, Invisibility, Phasing, Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)

Passives: Screech, Cursed Body (When you are hit by a foe's melee attack, disable that attack for 10 mins. Cursed Body can only affect one attack at a time.), Insomnia

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)

Shadow Ball - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Amorphous, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Nullivore / Psiotroph, Habitat - Urban Abandoned

Evolution: Shuppet

Banette

Proficiencies: Dark / Ghost / Elemental Attack E / Hexwork

Sucker Punch - Melee Dark Attack: 1/day 3d8. Sucker Punch is used as a Reaction. When you are a target of a melee move, use Sucker Punch to attack the attacker before the enemy rolls their Accuracy Check against you. You must still roll an accuracy check for Sucker Punch.

Trick - Melee Psychic Effect: 1/day. On hit, you and the target trade any held items. If only you or the target has an item, take or give the item to exchange who has possession of it.

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 323

Sinistea / Polteageist 

Sinistea

Ghost - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Hover (can hover)

Passives: Withdraw (+1 Defense), Weak Armor (When you are hit by a melee attack, your Defense is -3 and your Speed is +3 for 10 mins.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Astonish - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Mega Drain - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d10. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Protect - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Protect is used as a Reaction. When you would be hit by a move, use Protect to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack.

Polteageist

Ghost - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 14

Sinistea spend much of their time lying in wait for unsuspecting passersby to try to take a sip of them, as they can only drain life force from the mouths of another being. However, because they taste absolutely terrible, they only have a fleeting moment to do so. Though Sinistea seem to prefer fine china as their vessels of choice, they are not very good at detecting forgeries. Thus, most Sinistea in existence inhabit forged teacups; authentic Sinistea will bear a stamp on their bottoms. The swirl pattern on Sinistea bodies are their weak point, and stirring it within its cup will make it very dizzy. When a Sinistea does select and bond with a rare piece of china, it may find itself highly valued by trainers, even though its power is unlikely to be any different from another Sinistea inhabiting a broken dirty cup.

Skills: Alluring (attracts others with their aroma), Hover
Passives: Nasty Plot (+1 Special Attack), Withdraw, Cursed Body (When you are hit by a foe's melee attack, disable that attack for 10 mins. Cursed Body can only affect one attack at a time.), Weak Armor

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral / Amorphous, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Nullivore / Psiotroph, Habitat - Ruins / Urban Abandoned

Evolution: Sinistea

Polteageist

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +7, Effect +3)

Proficiencies: Dark / Ghost / Psychic / Parasitic / Weird

Curse - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. Curse can only be
used by Ghost-Type Pokťmon. On hit, you lose hit points equal to 1/3rd of your max HP, then the target is Cursed.

Tea Time - Ranged(40ft burst) Normal Effect: 3/day. Any target holding a Berry immediately consumes it.

Aromatherapy - Melee Grass Effect: 3/day. Target an ally or yourself. Target is cured of all afflictions.

324

When provided with a teapot, and when they have the

Yamask are peculiar Pokťmon that so far have only been

strength to inhabit it, Sinistea evolve into Polteageist. To found in the desert ruins of ancient civilizations, particularly

defend themselves, Polteageist will launch their tea into the within tombs plated with copious amounts of gold. They

mouths of attackers, immediately causing their foes to feel appear to be able to converse with others of their kind with

weak and dizzy. Strong chills are a common symptom of quiet murmurings that sound uncannily similar to human

Polteageist tea consumption. However, Polteageist will

speech. Wild Yamask have been known to attempt to speak

willingly share their tea with those it trusts deeply, and tea with human explorers; they will answer questions with

connoisseurs relish the unique flavor, aroma, and

inflected, sentence-like cries, but the noises they make are

experience that only Polteageist tea can provide. Too much incomprehensible to people. It is likely that this murmuring

can lead to an upset stomach, however, Polteageist

is the reason why historic archaeologists excavating burial

themselves are quite picky about tea and will frown upon grounds often reported voices emanating from the walls.

trainers that display unsophisticated palates when it comes Yamask always carry their golden masks with them at all

to brewing it. These Pokťmon are seen as pests in the

times, and will become very stressed if they go missing.

hospitality industry, as they will commonly pose as ordinary pots in hotels and cafťs. In addition to creating eggs, they also can reproduce by pouring some of themselves into new cups, making infestations a huge issue.

These Pokťmon will often stare at their masks and begin to cry or mourn longingly for unknown reasons. Because of their enigmatic natures, many people believe that Yamask are in fact the spirits of deceased humans from an ancient civilization, carrying masks representing their faces from

when they were still alive. It is said that these Pokťmon

wander aimlessly through ruins in search of someone who

will recognize their faces.

325

Yamask / Cofagrigus 

Yamask

Ghost - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 3

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Hover (can hover)

Passives: Mummy (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, the ability passives of the attacker become Mummy for 10 mins.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +3, Effect +1)
Disable - Ranged(20ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. For 1 minute, the attack last used by the target may not be used again.
Will-O-Wisp - Ranged(10ft) Fire Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Burned.
Hex - Ranged(15ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target is afflicted, Hex has 5d8 for damage instead.

Cofagrigus

Ghost - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 15 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain), Hover

Passives: Scary Face (+2 Speed), Mummy

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +5, Effect +2)
Dark Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dark Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Shadow Ball - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Ominous Wind - Ranged(10ft) Ghost Special Attack: 1/day 2d8. On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour.

Cofagrigus are rarely-seen Pokťmon that inhabit tombs and ruins with copious amounts of gold. These Pokťmon consume solid gold in order to repair their own bodies. When deprived of the metal, their bodies become dull and a muted brown in coloration. Cofagrigus remain entirely still most of the time, disguising themselves as an inanimate sarcophagus. To travel, they extend their ethereal limbs and crawl quadrupedally; they are capable of traversing vertical walls and even ceilings in this manner. While focusing, they can even levitate. They are said to wait and pose as solid gold coffins until tomb robbers approach, at which point they grab them with their ghostly arms, open up their bodies, and trap them within, trapping them forever. Despite these stories, Cofagrigus have never been seen opening their bodies, let alone trapping people inside. Ancient, ornate tombs sometimes depict gilded Cofagrigus on their walls, indicating that their existence was already established when the civilizations whose ruins Cofagrigus live in still existed.

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral / Amorphous, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Terravore / Psiotroph, Habitat - Ruins

Evolution: Yamask

Cofagrigus

Proficiencies: Ghost / Psychic / Hexwork

Evolution Shift compatible with Yamask (Stone Ruins) family (406)
326

Dhelmise 

Ghost / Grass - Huge (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Gilled (can breathe underwater), Reach (melee range is 30 ft.), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Metal Sound (+1 Special Attack), Steelworker (Your Steel-type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +5, Effect +2)

Mega Drain - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d10. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Anchor Shot - Melee Steel Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, the target is bound to you or in place for 1d6 rounds.

Shadow Ball - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Dhelmise are very odd Pokťmon; few people know exactly what to make of them. The living portion of Dhelmise is the seaweed, said to be possessed by ocean spirits or even the reborn souls of the algae itself. The seaweed strands wrap themselves around the remains of ships, binding together their wheels, anchors, and other sunken instruments to form Dhelmise. Dhelmise swing their anchors around with great force to defend themselves. It is said that Dhelmise that are unable to find anchors to bind themselves to drift about aimlessly in the waves, indistinguishable from regular kelp. To feed, they extend their kelp, binding prey and draining their life force. They are known to whip up whirlpools by swinging their anchors around in order to draw prey in. Sailors say that kelp stuck to ship bottoms are Dhelmise that have been attracted to the steel vessels and are trying to weigh down and sink them for parts. Dhelmise add new seaweed and detritus to their bodies as they travel, though it is unknown if these new additions become animate as well.

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral / Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 13 Days, Diet - Herbivore / Psiotroph, Habitat - Ocean Abyss / Ocean Proficiencies: Ghost / Grass / Steel / Water
Mimikyu 
Ghost / Fairy - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight) Hit Points: 36 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 11 Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 5 Skills: Passives: Charm (+1 Defense), Hone Claws (+2 Attack), Disguise (The first time you are hit with an attack each encounter, the attack is negated.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +5)

Shadow Sneak - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 2d6. Shadow Sneak has Priority.

Shadow Claw - Melee Ghost Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Shadow Claw is a critical hit.

Play Rough - Melee Fairy Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Amorphous / Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore / Psiotroph, Habitat - Urban Abandoned
Proficiencies: Fairy / Ghost / Elemental Attack E / Hexwork

327

Oricorio 

Ghost / Flying - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Dancer (Oricorio appearances and types change with the nectars they drink. At least four forms are known: Baile form is Fire-type, Pom-Pom form is Electric-type, Pa'u form is Psychic-type, Sensu form is Ghost-type.), Flight (can fly)

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Growl (+1 Defense), Keen Eye (Your accuracy checks cannot be negatively affected by foes.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)

Mimikyu are lonely spirits that want nothing more than to be loved. They cloak themselves in cloth to shield their bodies from light, as they like dark places. They have cut and colored their cloths to resemble Pikachu and are said

Air Cutter - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. Air Cutter has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Air Cutter is a critical hit.

to have taken inspiration from discarded Pikachu merchan- Teeter Dance - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. On

dise from the past few decades. Holding crooked sticks as hit, all targets are Confused.

tails, it is said that Mimikyu pose as Pikachu so they can be as beloved by people as the electric rodents. Mimikyu never reveal their true forms, as the sight of their uncovered bodies is said to be so repulsive and terrifying that those

Revelation Dance - Ranged(10ft burst) Ghost Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. This attack's type is dependent on your primary type.

who see them die of shock or fall ill with disease. Though

their disguises protect them from attacks, strong blows will Biology: Egg Group - Flying / Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 10

snap their necks and ruin their hard work, saddening

Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Meadows

Mimikyu greatly. They will work tirelessly to repair their

costumes when they are broken. These Pokťmon will react Proficiencies: Flying / Ghost (Sensu) / Avian / Winged

violently if one tries to peek underneath their cloths, and

will also try and seek revenge on those that destroy their

costumes. Mimikyu can extend shadowy black hands from

beneath their disguises to grab things, but they avoid doing

so around people to maintain the illusion that they are

Pikachu.

Oricorio have adapted different forms depending on the kinds of nectar they drink; each one has its own typing and dance style, and Oricorio can swap between them by sipping nectar from different flowers. Purple nectar is associated with Ghost-typed, Sensu Style Oricorio. Reminiscent of spiritual dances, their movements are said to draw upon nearby spirits for power, and are said to summon curses on their enemies to disable them.
328

Spiritomb 

Ghost / Dark - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Nasty Plot (+1 Special Attack), Infiltrator (Hindering terrain and Walls do not affect you or your attacks.), Pressure (If you are hit by a 3/day attack, the attacker can't use that attack for the remainder of the day.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +2)

Confuse Ray - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target becomes Confused.

Ominous Wind - Ranged(10ft) Ghost Special Attack: 1/day 2d8. On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour.

Spiritomb are mysterious Pokťmon, with their true origins shrouded in mystery. A keystone can be seen at the bases of their bodies, with their faces rushing out of fis-

Dark Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dark Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

sures on their sides. The keystones are said to prevent any

of the many spirits that make up its being from causing

Biology: Egg Group - Amorphous, Egg Hatch Rate - 108

misfortune ever again; should they ever be released; they Days, Diet - Psiotroph, Habitat - Ruins

would wreak havoc on the world and its inhabitants. While

Spiritomb can extend their faces short distances from their Proficiencies: Dark / Ghost / Psychic / Hexwork

keystones, they ultimately are tethered to them wherever

they go. This doesn't stop them, however, from taking out

their anger at being imprisoned on anything near them.

Their faces can drag their keystone about, and even levitate

by pulling its face towards something desperately. The cir-

cular areas around their keystones are almost always de-

void of any life whatsoever.

329

Bellsprout / Weepinbell / Victreebel 

Bellsprout

Grass / Poison - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Sprouter (can manipulate plant life), Threaded (can move around with vines)

Passives: Growth (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Chlorophyll (While in Sunny Weather, your Speed is +2.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +2)
Vine Whip - Ranged(20ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 2d8.
Pound - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Wrap - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 physical damage on its turns.

Weepinbell

Grass / Poison - Medium (Size), Light (Weight) Hit Points: 42 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Sprouter, Threaded

Passives: Growth, Chlorophyll

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)
Poison Powder - Melee Poison Effect: At-Will. Poison Powder has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Poisoned.
Stun Spore - Melee Grass Effect: At-Will. Stun Spore has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Paralyzed.
Sleep Powder - Melee Grass Effect: At-Will. Sleep Powder has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is put to Sleep.

Bellsprout prefer to make their homes in humid, tropical habitats. They feed on Bug-types, capturing their prey by rooting themselves into the ground and camouflaging as plants before lashing out their vines to ensnare small, unwary prey. Their roots also draw water and nutrients from the soil. However, they are unable to run while rooted, making them easy targets for predators while trying to hunt. Bellsprout are quick at capturing prey, dissolving victims with acid from their mouths. Their flexible bodies allow them to swerve around most attacks, giving them time to uproot themselves from the soil and escape from attackers.

330

Weepinbell will eat just about anything that moves. They attack prey with disabling sprays, swallowing them whole and letting their internal acids digest them. If they can't swallow their meals, they will cut them up into more suitable chunks using their sharps leaves. Weepinbell must protect themselves from their own acid by also secreting neutralizing fluids so that they don't dissolve their own bodies. When resting, they hang from tree branches using the small hooks behind their heads. Tropical trees with clear acid burns on their bark were likely inhabited by colonies of Weepinbell at some point in time. Occasionally, Weepinbell may fall from their trees in their sleep. This is a huge danger for these Pokťmon, as they become vulnerable to predators in this state. However, in a colony, a fallen Weepinbell is still extremely dangerous to approach, as the other Weepinbell still hanging from the tree will be ready to attack by dropping onto those who approach.

Victreebel

Grass / Poison - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Alluring (attracts others with their aroma), Sprouter, Threaded

Passives: Growth, Chlorophyll, Leaf Guard (While in sunny weather, you are cured of any afflictions.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)

Leaf Tornado - Ranged(10ft) Grass Special Attack: At-Will 2d8.

Victreebel live in huge colonies in the middle of dense tropical rainforests. Their acid is strong enough to melt nearly anything. To hunt, Victreebel flail the vines attached to their heads around like lures, attracting unwary prey towards them. Then, their acid, which smells like honey, brings their targets right to the Pokťmon. Victreebel then swallow their victims whole, digesting them with their powerful acids. As they dissolve more prey, their acid's smell grows even sweeter and more honey-like, attracting more prey and continuing the cycle. Victreebel are rather rare in the wild and are generally only found in the previouslymentioned colonies, rarely straying into the fringes of their forests. Weepinbell who do manage to come into contact with Leaf Stones in the wild almost instinctively hone in on and join the closest Victreebel colonies in their vicinities.

Poison Jab - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.
Leaf Blade - Melee Grass Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Leaf Blade is a critical hit.

Biology: Egg Group - Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Carnivore / Phototroph, Habitat - Jungles / Swamps

Evolution: Bellsprout Victreebel

Weepinbell Leaf Stone

Proficiencies: Grass / Poison / Glutton (Weepinbell / Victreebel)

331

Bounsweet / Steenee / Tsareena 

Bounsweet

Grass - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 3

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Alluring (attracts others with their aroma)

Passives: Play Nice (+1 Defense), Leaf Guard (While in sunny weather, you are cured of any afflictions.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +1, Effect +1)
Splash - Melee Normal Effect: At-Will. Instead of making an Accuracy Check, roll 1d20. On 18 or higher, all adjacent foes are moved 5 ft away from the user.
Rapid Spin - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d8. Destroy any Hazards or Coats, and free bound allies within 5 ft. You may target Hazards, Coats, or bound allies with Rapid Spin without needing to roll Accuracy Check or damage.
Leafage - Ranged(20ft) Grass Special Attack: At-Will 1d12.

Steenee

Grass - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Alluring

Passives: Play Nice, Leaf Guard , Oblivious (You are immune to Infatuation.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Double Slap - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Double Slap has -2 during Accuracy Check. Double Slap is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Razor Leaf - Ranged(25ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Razor Leaf is a critical hit.

Bounsweet hop around tropical jungles, bouncing along on their springy bottoms. They constantly exude a sweet, fragrant aroma from their entire bodies. Many people find this scent calming, and some even let Bounsweet live in their homes as natural air fresheners. Unfortunately, their fragrance often attracts many predators; Flying-types are known to swallow Bounsweet whole. Though Bounsweet are far too saccharine for human consumption, their sweat can be harvested and watered down to create a refreshing juice. This sweetness is also excreted when Bounsweet exert themselves, ironically making them even more appetizing as they run for their lives. Though their heads are quite soft, their calyxes are actually as hard as wood. They can spin their calyxes rapidly to drive off predators, but doing so makes them very dizzy. They will hop aimlessly for some time after spinning. Since bouncing is their only form of locomotion, these Pokťmon look happy even as they are fleeing desperately from danger.

Teeter Dance - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, all targets are Confused.

332

Steenee have harder sepals than their pre-evolutions. Because of this, they no longer have to fear nearly as many predators. Steenee are lively, friendly Pokťmon that exude an aroma even sweeter and more pleasant than Bounsweet. They can be a bit rough when playing, however, as they pay little attention to their surroundings or to others. Their calyxes spin around idly as they walk, knocking over objects and smacking into people and Pokťmon. They sometimes will not even notice when things fall onto their heads from above, as they usually bounce harmlessly off of their sepals. In battle, Steenee first strike enemies with their hard calyxes to stun them before delivering strong kicks to finish them off. Their legs are actually just as hard as their calyxes, as they are made of the same material. It is said that the more a Steenee is allowed to play freely, the sweeter its aroma will become. When Steenee twirl, they diffuse their aroma into the surrounding air. This scent is thought to promote happiness in those who smell it.

Tsareena
Grass - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Alluring

Passives: Play Nice, Leaf Guard, Queenly Majesty (You may not be targeted by Priority moves that are being used out of turn order.), Sweet Veil (You and your allies within 10ft of you are immune to being put to Sleep.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)

Trop Kick - Melee Grass Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Stomp - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got

Tsareena carry themselves like royalty, being regal in

18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

both appearances and personality. Their cold gazes can freeze enemies in their tracks, and they punish aggressors with grace and elegance. Tsareena are masters in highkicking; they can deliver flurries of kicks with their powerful

High Jump Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. High Jump Kick has -2 during Accuracy Check. If you miss, you lose HP equal to half of your Max HP.

legs to assail foes as they are intoxicated by their tantaliz-

ing fragrances. Tsareena are known to laugh or scoff con- Biology: Egg Group - Grass / Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 10

descendingly after finishing off opponents, kicking them Days, Diet - Phototroph, Habitat - Jungles

after they are down. It is said that a blow from the hard tips Evolution: Bounsweet of a Tsareena leg will leave a wound that will never heal,

Steenee

Tsareena

both physically and emotionally. Only a few Steenee evolve Proficiencies: Grass / Kicks

into Tsareena in the wild, as they require the blessing of

the other Steenee to do so. Upon evolution, they are tasked

with the job of protecting young Bounsweet.

333

Budew / Roselia / Roserade 

Budew

Grass / Poison - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Sprouter (can manipulate plant life)

Passives: Growth (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Natural Cure (Whenever returned to a Poke Ball, you are cured of any afflictions.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Water Sport - Melee Water Effect: At-Will. Put a Water Coat on the target or yourself. The Coat has the following ability: Reduce damage from Fire attacks that hit you by 10. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.
Stun Spore - Melee Grass Effect: At-Will. Stun Spore has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Paralyzed.

Roselia

Grass / Poison - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Alluring (attracts others with their aroma), Sprouter

Passives: Growth, Natural Cure, Poison Point (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Poison the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)

Budew are found alongside clean water sources; they obtain most of their energy from the sun and water around them. Their buds remain closed throughout the winter as they endure the cold weather. Once the temperature rises in the spring, they will open their buds to scatter pollen. This pollen is in fact mildly toxic; it can trigger allergic reactions in many people and Pokťmon, inducing harsh sneezing and runny noses. Budew rely primarily on their toxic pollen to discourage predators. Access to cleaner water seems to be correlated with more toxic pollen. Though they have historically been used as indicators of spring, recent studies have shown that Budew have begun opening their buds earlier and earlier in the season for the past few decades. Scientists believe that this trend is due to rising global temperatures, as Budew appear to open their buds in response to the climate rather than the time of year. Budew are keeping their buds open for longer periods of time because of the warmer weather, a nuisance for many people and Pokťmon due to their pollen's allergy-inducing effects.

Poison Sting - Melee Poison Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

Magical Leaf - Ranged(25ft) Grass Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.

Grass Whistle - Ranged(20ft burst) Grass Effect: 1/day. Grass Whistle has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, all targets fall Asleep.

334

Roselia are serene Pokťmon, spending most of their time lounging in the sun. Despite their miniature size, however, they are more than capable of defending themselves. The three horns on their heads can inject a vicious toxin into those foolish enough to try to pick their flowers which they are very protective of. They can also fire thorns containing a similar toxin as projectiles. Each of their hands can shoot a different toxin; one causes a searing pain that can last for hours, while the other incapacitates foes with an effect similar to paralysis. Those who manage to enrage these normally docile Pokťmon may find themselves subject to both of these at once. Their flowers emit a calming fragrance that placates nearby aggressors. The compounds that create this scent are used in many varieties of relaxing perfumes. Healthier Roselia produce stronger aromas. Roselia will drink spring water that is rich in minerals; the cleaner the water, the more vivid their flowers become. Some Roselia are said to develop specially-colored flowers from rare minerals in this water.

Roserade

Grass / Poison - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 14

Skills: Alluring, Sprouter

Passives: Growth, Natural Cure, Poison Point, Technician (When rolling damage, replace any rolled 1s or 2s with 3.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +7, Effect +4)

Toxic Spikes - Ranged(20ft burst) Poison Effect: 3/day. Place

the Toxic Spikes Hazard in the area surrounding you. Tox-

ic Spikes Hazard has the following ability: When a foe

Roserade are known for their grace and beauty, both in moves through Toxic Spikes Hazard during their turn and

and out of battle. Their movements have been compared are on the ground, they are Poisoned. If the Toxic Spikes

to that of dancers. Like Roselia, each of their two hands

Hazard has multiple layers, it will Toxify foes instead of

contains a different type of toxin, one that delivers a sear- Poisoning them instead. This Hazard disappears after 2

ing pain and another that leaves opponents essentially par- mins.

alyzed. The blooms on their arms emit a sweet, alluring scent that attracts prey towards them. However, they also hide whip-like vines lined with venomous thorns. Roserade can also jab their hands into foes to inject poison, thrusting with near-fatal force. In battle, Roserade dance around the

Ingrain - Self Grass Effect: 1/day. Put a Root Coat on yourself. The Coat has the following ability: At the beginning of your turn, recover 1d12 HP. You may not move. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

field with their thorny vines out, whipping them around to Petal Blizzard - Ranged(10ft burst) Grass Attack: 3/day

constrict and poison opponents. Their aroma sweetens as 3d10.

their toxins become more potent, leading some to believe

that the toxins are in fact what produce the scent. Howev- Biology: Egg Group - Fairy / Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 10

er, the toxin and the scent in fact do not affect each other; sweeter scents tend to come from healthier Roserade, who

Days, Diet - Phototroph, Habitat - Fields / Meadows

also tend to produce more virulent poison.

Evolution: Budew

Roselia

Shiny Stone

Roserade

Proficiencies: Grass / Poison / Floral (Roselia / Roserade) / Weather

335

Hoppip / Skiploom / Jumpluff 

Hoppip

Grass / Flying - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Flight (can fly), Sprouter (can manipulate plant life)

Passives: Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Chlorophyll (While in Sunny Weather, your Speed is +2.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)

Splash - Melee Normal Effect: At-Will. Instead of making an Accuracy Check, roll 1d20. On 18 or higher, all adjacent foes are moved 5 ft away from the user.

Synthesis - Self Grass Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP
equal to half of your Max HP. If you are within Sunny Weather, you are healed HP equal to 3/4ths of your Max
HP instead.

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Skiploom

Grass / Flying - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight) Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Flight, Sprouter

Passives: Tail Whip, Chlorophyll, Leaf Guard (While in sunny weather, you are cured of any afflictions.)

Hoppip are common sights on breezy days, floating in the wind with their leaves whirling idly. Their light bodies can be picked up by breezes, letting them follow the winds. Their feet are capable of gripping onto the ground tightly to avoid being blown away. However, they are not suitable for walking, leaving wind as their main form of motion. Hoppip also gather in large clusters for stability during strong gales, linking their leaves together to form tightlyinterwoven chains. These clusters can number anywhere from 10 to 100, with colonies of over a thousand having been reported during strong tropical windstorms. Clusters that are blown loose may float aimlessly across the sky like aerial tumbleweeds. Due to their usually docile natures, Hoppip unfortunately make easy prey for many predators. However, the leaves on their heads are unimaginably bitter, so few predators dare to consume them.

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)
Bullet Seed - Ranged(10ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 1d4. Bullet Seed has -2 during Accuracy Check. Bullet Seed is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Leech Seed - Ranged(10ft) Grass Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target gets a Seed Coat. The Coat has the following ability: At the beginning of your turn, if you are within 20 ft of the enemy who gave you the Seed Coat, you lose 1d12 HP. The enemy who gave you the Seed Coat will gain the same amount of HP that you lost. This Coat lasts for 3 mins, or until you are at 0 or less HP.
Acrobatics - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Acrobatics cannot be used if you have a held item.

336

Skiploom have flowers that spin like pinwheels as they float across the sky. They ride the wind to get closer to the sun, where their petals will open to allow them to absorb sunlight and photosynthesize. Depending on the temperature, their flowers will open up to various degrees. Because of this, some trainers use Skiploom as natural thermometers, gauging the air temperature based on how open their flowers are. In particularly cold weather, their flowers close up completely and their floating abilities are severely hampered. Excessive water can also be detrimental to Skiploom. Because they cannot remain airborne when soaked, they will hide in the shade of trees during rainfalls to avoid getting wet. They are usually naturally easygoing and friendly Pokťmon. Skiploom rarely attack, even when threatened, instead preferring to escape on the next breeze. However, they are capable of incapacitating foes when necessary with incapacitating moves.

Jumpluff

Grass / Flying - Medium (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 13 (65 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Flight, Sprouter

Passives: Cotton Spore (+2 Speed), Tail Whip, Chlorophyll, Infiltrator (Hindering terrain and Walls do not affect you or your attacks.), Leaf Guard

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +6)

Jumpluff have full control of their flight paths. Rather than simply floating aimlessly in the wind, they can direct their cotton puffs to float in whatever direction and speed they choose. They are capable of withstanding strong gales and are able to circumnavigate the world on sustained trade winds. As winter approaches, Jumpluff soar in large clusters across oceans on southern winds, landing whenever they encounter cooler breezes. Because they are very agile, they prefer to escape confrontation on the wind rather than confront foes. However, should they for whatever reason be unable to escape, they can utilize their cotton to slow down opponents, buying them time to flee.

Rage Powder - Ranged(10ft) Bug Effect: 3/day. Rage Powder is used as a Reaction. If an ally would be attacked, you may target the attacking enemy and they will only want to attack you instead, for 2 mins.
Giga Drain - Melee Grass Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Bounce - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Bounce is a twoturn move. On the first turn, raise yourself 40 ft into the air. On the second turn, return to the ground, move up to twice your movement rate, then you may roll Bounce's Accuracy Check and damage. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Biology: Egg Group - Fairy / Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet - Phototroph, Habitat - Forests / Fields / Mountains

Evolution: Hoppip

Skiploom

Jumpluff

Proficiencies: Grass / Flying / Lepidopteran

337

Seedot / Nuzleaf / Shiftry 

Seedot

Grass - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Sprouter (can manipulate plant life)

Passives: Growth (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Harden (+1 Defense), Chlorophyll (While in Sunny Weather, your Speed is +2.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)

Bide - Ranged(25ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Bide is a three-turn move. On the first and second turns, do nothing. On the third turn, release energy; all characters within range take damage equal to twice the damage you took since the first turn of Bide.

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Nuzleaf

Grass / Dark - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain), Sprouter

Passives: Growth, Harden, Chlorophyll, Early Bird (You roll twice during checks to wake from Sleep and use the higher result.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Fake Out - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 2d6. Fake Out has Priority. Fake Out can only be used as your first action during an encounter. On hit, the target is Stunned.

Seedot attach themselves to tree branches using the tops of their heads like suction cups. These protrusions also double as siphons, allowing Seedot to drain moisture from the trees they are attached to. As they fill themselves with water and nutrients, their bodies become glossier. Full Seedot are heavy enough to fall from their trees and land on the ground. There, they can blend in with fallen acorns until they are ready for evolution. Curiously, Seedot enjoy scaring other Pokťmon. Wild Flying-types often mistake them for real acorns, and Seedot delight in startling them by suddenly jumping up at the last second. They may also drop prematurely from their branches to scare unsuspecting people and Pokťmon below. Strong winds can also dislodge Seedot before they are ready. They are able feed from tree trunks and roots instead of branches though, if necessary. Once a day, Seedot will polish themselves using fallen leaves. They pass the time waiting for evolution by using the glare from their shiny bodies to disorient passing travelers.

Razor Leaf - Ranged(25ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Razor Leaf is a critical hit.

Swagger - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.

338

Nuzleaf dwell deep in thick forests, hiding within the hollows of trees. They enjoy disturbing lost travelers, venturing out from their concealed shelters to scare them. Using the leaves on their heads as flutes, they can play deeply unsettling melodies that fill the hearts of listeners with dread. Alternatively, they may play melodies to put unwary travelers to sleep and then pull off all sorts of tricks on them, such as stealing their supplies. They can also emit disturbing cackling sounds that seem to echo throughout the forest. Nuzleaf are adept climbers, swiftly leaping between trees to unsettle travelers with the sound of rustling leaves around them. Some Nuzleaf have a weak point in the form of their long noses; if they are pinched, Nuzleaf inexplicably become unable to attack.

Shiftry

Grass / Dark - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Climber, Sprouter, Stealth (can make stealth skill checks)

Passives: Growth, Harden, Chlorophyll, Early Bird, Pickpocket (When you are hit by a melee attack, you steal the offender's held item, if any.)

Shiftry are rare in the wild, found deep in forests in the branches of old trees; some say they will only inhabit trees over 1,000 years old. Shiftry can create gusts of wind reaching 70 mph using the leaf fans on their hands to blow away intruders. They can predict the actions of opponents and take preemptive measures; some believe that Shiftry can read minds, while others contend that they are highly sensitive to air currents and body language interpretation. Regardless of how they predict actions, Shiftry can uncannily prepare themselves from most attacks. Popular folklore says that the only way to defeat them is to do so unwittingly. Shiftry is said to ride cold, winter winds through forests, leaving behind feelings of deep unease in travelers.

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)
Extrasensory - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Hurricane - Ranged(25ft, 10ft blast) Flying Special Attack: 1/ day 5d12. Hurricane has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Raining. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the targets are Confused.
Leaf Storm - Ranged(30ft beam) Grass Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. After use, your Special Attack is -4 for 10 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet - Herbivore / Phototroph, Habitat - Forests / Woodlands

Evolution: Seedot

Nuzleaf

Leaf Stone Shiftry

Proficiencies: Dark / Grass / Tricky

339

Smoliv / Dolliv / Arboliva 

Smoliv

Grass / Normal - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Sprouter (can manipulate plant life)

Passives: Growth (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Early Bird (You roll twice during checks to wake from Sleep and use the higher result.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +1)
Safeguard - Ranged(10ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Put a Safe Coat on all allies and yourself. The Coat has the following ability: You cannot become afflicted. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Sweet Scent - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. On hit, your next attack against the same target has +1 during Accuracy Check.

Dolliv

Grass / Normal - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Sprouter

Passives: Growth, Early Bird, Harvest (When using a Berry, you only use half of it while still gaining its full effects. You can only use half of a Berry if you have Harvest.)

Smoliv dwell in warm, dry regions, often spending their time basking in direct sunlight. These Pokťmon have lived alongside humans for thousands of years, coexisting near agricultural communities. Smoliv gather nutrients and store it in a potent oil that they store in the fruits on the tops of their heads. They can go weeks without eating or drinking, living solely off of this energy store. When endangered, they will spew out this oil to slick the terrain and coat attackers, hindering their foes while Smoliv make their escapes. Smoliv oil is not fit for human consumption without refinement, however, because the oil is highly astringent. In the past, people used Smoliv oil to make soap and cosmetics, as well as for use as lubricant and fuel. In modern times, refined Smoliv oil has had its bitter taste removed, rendering it neutral and suitable for high temperatures; this process also unfortunately strips it of its valuable nutrients.

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +1)

Leech Seed - Ranged(10ft) Grass Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target gets a Seed Coat. The Coat has the following ability: At the beginning of your turn, if you are within 20 ft of the enemy who gave you the Seed Coat, you lose 1d12 HP. The enemy who gave you the Seed Coat will gain the same amount of HP that you lost. This Coat lasts for 3 mins, or until you are at 0 or less HP.
Razor Leaf - Ranged(25ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Razor Leaf is a critical hit.
Helping Hand - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. Target ally's next attack during this round will deal +1d20 damage.

340

Dolliv oil is quite aromatic and desirable. Many describe its taste as peppery or grassy. Dolliv sunbathe to gather energy, storing vitamins and nutrients as oil in their fruits until they ripen. Having lived alongside humans for centuries, Dolliv frequently share their oil with people in exchange for protection. Dolliv in different regions produce different tasting oils, and even an individual Dolliv can change its aroma as it matures. Once the fruit on Dolliv fully matures, it leaves its home and sets off to spread its fruit far away from where it was born. It will not return again until the following season, ready for the ripening process to begin anew. Some villages traditionally held semiannual festivals commemorate this, one at the end of the harvest season to bid farewell, and another at the start to welcome them home.

Arboliva

Grass / Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 14

Skills: Sprouter
Passives: Growth, Early Bird, Harvest, Seed Sower (When you are hit by an attack that dealt damage, as a free action you may deplete one use of Grassy Terrain and use Grassy Terrain immediately.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +7, Effect +2)

Sometimes, after their annual departures from home, Dolliv may not return. This does not necessarily mean that they have passed, as Dolliv that evolve into Arboliva become restless wanderers. Arboliva stop in sunny areas to build up stores of oil, then set off again into the distance.

Petal Dance - Ranged(5ft burst) Grass Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Petal Dance is a two-turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.

When they cross into unfavorable conditions, they rely on Terrain Pulse - Ranged(25ft) Normal Special Attack: 3/day

these stores to tide them over until they find sunlight again. 3d8. If used while you are in the area of a Terrain effect,

Arboliva are compassionate Pokťmon that share their oil Terrain Pulse has 5d8 for damage instead and its type

freely with those in need. In addition to its divine taste, its changes to match the terrain.

nutritional density makes it a blessing for injured or starving people and Pokťmon. Their kindness does not mean weakness, however; Arboliva can blast oil with enough force to shatter boulders if threatened. Because of their benevolence, Arboliva are beloved Pokťmon in many parts of the world. According to legend, there was once an Arbol-

Grassy Terrain - Grass Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Grassy Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Anyone who acts within the Grassy terrain recovers 1d12 HP after acting. Within the Grassy Terrain, Grass-type attacks deal an additional 8 damage. This terrain disappears after 2 mins.

iva who traveled forty kilometers across an arid desert in

order to provide food to a starving village. To this day, the Biology: Egg Group - Fairy / Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days,

village honors its voyage by holding an annual trek across Diet - Phototroph, Habitat - Orchards

the same desert.

Evolution: Smoliv

Dolliv

Arboliva

Proficiencies: Grass

341

Oddish / Gloom / Vileplume 
/ Bellossom

Oddish

Grass / Poison - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Sprouter (can manipulate plant life)

Passives: Growth (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Chlorophyll (While in Sunny Weather, your Speed is +2.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +1)
Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Sweet Scent - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. On hit, your next attack against the same target has +1 during Accuracy Check.
Acid Spray - Ranged(20ft) Poison Special Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Gloom

Grass / Poison - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Sprouter

Passives: Growth, Chlorophyll, Repulsive (repels others with a foul smell)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +2)
Poison Powder - Melee Poison Effect: At-Will. Poison Powder has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Poisoned.
Stun Spore - Melee Grass Effect: At-Will. Stun Spore has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Paralyzed.
Sleep Powder - Melee Grass Effect: At-Will. Sleep Powder has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is put to Sleep.

Oddish are nocturnal Pokťmon that bury their bodies in the soil during the day, exposing only the leaves on their heads. They can easily be mistaken for weeds when like this--but if one pulls on Oddish leaves, it will let out a horrible shriek. Their feet act as roots when buried in the soil, absorbing nutrients from the earth. Healthier Oddish have glossier leaves. When exposed to moonlight, Oddish uproot themselves and begin to wander aimlessly in search of fertile soil. Along the way as they travel, they disperse some of their seeds onto their paths. Oddish leaves are known to be poisonous, and at the very least, cause surreal hallucinations upon consumption. For a brief time, people would consume Oddish leaves recreationally, but the craze quickly ended when the more toxic side effects, such as permanent liver damage, were discovered. Recently, scientists have discovered that Oddish can in fact photosynthesize using moonlight rather than sunlight.

342

Gloom are most famously known for their horrid stench. Their putrid odor can make people gag from twenty feet away. From a closer distance, one sniff can cause temporary memory loss and fainting. Though the smell is unbearable to most people, there are a select few individuals that actually enjoy the smell. The "drool" from their mouths is actually a foul-smelling honey, used to attract their Bugtype prey. In a constant cycle, the smell of the honey cause Gloom to become excited, which in turn cause them to produce even more of their putrid honey, and more of their equally foul pollen as well. Despite the smell, however, Gloom honey is reportedly sweet once one overlooks the stench. It is a very sticky substance, however, that is difficult to remove from clothing. Notably, while an alarmed Gloom releases even more rancid pollen than normal, a calm one will release next to no smell at all.

Vileplume

Grass / Poison - Large (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 48 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 12

Skills: Alluring (attracts others with their aroma), Repulsive, Sprouter

Passives: Growth, Effect Spore (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, randomly either Paralyze, Poison, or put to Sleep the attacker.), Chlorophyll

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +6, Effect +2)
Petal Blizzard - Ranged(10ft burst) Grass Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Petal Dance - Ranged(5ft burst) Grass Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Petal Dance is a two-turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.

Solar Beam - Ranged(30ft beam) Grass Special Attack: 1/ day 5d12. Solar Beam is a two-turn move unless it is Sunny. On the first turn, do nothing. On the second turn or if it is Sunny, roll Solar Beam's Accuracy Check and damage.

The giant flower on a Vileplume's head holds most of the Pokťmon's mass. With the largest petal-to-body ratio in the world, Vileplume have trouble holding up their heads due to the sheer weight of their flowers. Studies show that the larger the flowers are, the more poisonous their pollen is. The smell of the flowers attracts prey; when they draw close, Vileplume flap their petals, cloaking themselves and their targets in toxic pollen that quickly immobilizes victims. Even as they walk, Vileplume scatter pollen out of their blooms, turning the surrounding air a sickly yellow. This pollen can cause poisoning and paralysis in large amounts, but can also trigger massive allergy attacks in even trace amounts. Like Oddish and Gloom, Vileplume may hide partially buried in the soil, only exposing their flowers for unwary prey to investigate. Because of this, it is unadvisable to approach large flowers in swamps or jungles, as they may actually be Vileplume in disguise waiting for an opportunity to scatter pollen.

Bellossom

Grass - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Alluring, Sprouter
Passives: Quiver Dance (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense, +1 Speed), Chlorophyll, Healer (After acting, you may roll 1d20. On 16 or higher, any adjacent allies are cured of all afflictions.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)
Magical Leaf - Ranged(25ft) Grass Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.

Biology: Egg Group - Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Phototroph, Habitat - Jungles / Plains / Swamps

Evolution: Oddish

Gloom

Sun Stone Bellossom

Leaf Stone Vileplume,

Proficiencies: Grass / Poison / Floral (Gloom / Vileplume / Bellossom) / Healer (Bellossom)

Petal Dance - Ranged(5ft burst) Grass Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Petal Dance is a two-turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.
Leaf Storm - Ranged(30ft beam) Grass Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. After use, your Special Attack is -4 for 10 mins.

343

Bellossom are generally found in tropical jungles, often

seen dancing uniformly in circular groups. These dances

are said to summon the sun, bringing bright, warm days.

They congregate at the end of the rainy season to dance

and celebrate. When exposed to ample sunlight, their petal Bramblin are said to be born when lost souls, tossed

skirts deepen in color and they begin to twirl around. As about aimlessly by the wind, eventually catch on tangles of

they dance, their petals rub against each other, creating a dried grass and possess them. Even in these forms, they

pleasing sound. It is said that Bellossom that evolve from continue to roam aimlessly, rolling whichever way the wind

more putrid Gloom develop more vibrant flowers. When blows. It is not uncommon to see large numbers of them

Bellossom sleep, they close their petals around themselves. bouncing across open deserts in windy weather. They fre-

Their petal skirts and flowers will wilt when deprived of

quently accumulate near windbreaks where the lack of air-

sunlight.

flow prevents them from traveling any further until the

wind changes direction. Their small thorns occasionally

catch on the ground, giving them a bit of respite until they

are blown loose again. As Bramblin roll, they gradually con-

centrate their spiritual energy and slowly gain more control

of their movement. It is said that seeing a Bramblin blow

across one's path is an omen of bad luck, and that one

must retrace one's steps to avoid passing it to avoid this.

344

Bramblin / Brambleghast 

Bramblin

Grass / Ghost - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 5

Skills: -

Passives: Defense Curl (+1 Defense), Wind Rider (You are immune to wind based attacks. If you would be hit by a wind based attack, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins instead.)
Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Astonish - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Rapid Spin - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d8. Destroy any Hazards or Coats, and free bound allies within 5 ft. You may target Hazards, Coats, or bound allies with Rapid Spin without needing to roll Accuracy Check or damage.

Brambleghast travel freely on the whipping winds of the desert, and have no fixed locations that they call home. They deftly adjust their bodies in order to catch favorable winds, riding them wherever they please. When they spot unwary prey, the wait for strong breezes before opening up their branches and crashing into their targets. Then, they envelop their victims and drain them of their life force. Once Brambleghast are finished with their meals, they expel and discard the withered husks of their prey. Although Brambleghast are skilled at riding wind currents, they are still ultimately at their mercy, and in strong gales they sometimes are swept into towns. They are sometimes numerous enough to choke out streets and paralyze traffic flow. For some desert cities, this is an annual occurrence that marks the start of the winter season, and tourists flock to see these Brambleghast migrations.

Brambleghast
Grass / Ghost - Medium (Size), Light (Weight)
Hit Points: 36 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 7
Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 12 Special Attack: 8
Skills: -
Passives: Defense Curl, Tailwind (+2 Speed), Infiltrator (Hindering terrain and Walls do not affect you or your attacks.), Wind Rider
Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +4, Effect +5)
Curse - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. Curse can only be used by Ghost-Type Pokťmon. On hit, you lose hit points equal to 1/3rd of your max HP, then the target is Cursed.

Biology: Egg Group - Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Psiotroph, Habitat - Deserts / Plains

Evolution: Bramblin

Brambleghast

Proficiencies: Ghost / Grass / Hexwork

Hex - Ranged(15ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target is afflicted, Hex has 5d8 for damage instead.
Power Whip - Melee Grass Attack: 1/day 5d12. Power Whip has -2 during Accuracy Check.

345

Cacnea / Cacturne 

Cacnea

Grass - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 10

Skills: -

Passives: Growth (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Leer (+1 Attack), Sand Veil (While in Sandstorming Weather, any foe's attacks made against you have -1 during accuracy check and you don't take damage from Sandstorming weather.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +5, Effect +2)

Poison Sting - Melee Poison Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Feint Attack - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense.

Cacturne

Grass / Dark - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 14

Special Attack: 13

Skills: -

Passives: Growth, Leer, Sand Veil, Water Absorb (When you are hit by a water-type attack, halve the damage, then you heal that much HP instead of taking damage.)

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +6, Effect +3)
Spiky Shield - Self Grass Effect: 1/day. Spiky Shield is used as a Reaction. If an enemy within melee range would hit you with an attack, use Spiky Shield to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack, and also the enemy loses HP equal to 1/6th of its Max HP.

Cacnea live in arid deserts, surviving on tremendously meager amounts of water. The drier and hotter their environments are, the more beautiful and fragrant the flowers on top of their heads grow. They use their flowers' scents to attract prey, which they shoot down with thorns. If this fails, Cacnea can also swing their spiky arms at foes like hammers. When they find an oasis, they will gorge themselves with water, filling their hollow bodies. They can last up to thirty days on this stored water. Cacnea are solitary Pokťmon, wandering deserts alone. However, they are not territorial and will allow other Cacnea to pass nearby without conflict. When food is scare, Cacnea can find sustenance by digging into the ground; they dig their roots deep into the sand to suck up nutrients like plants. However, the sustenance they gain from this is ultimately inefficient for supporting them in the long run, so they must eventually hunt and capture prey in order to survive.
Biology: Egg Group - Grass / Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate 10 Days, Diet - Carnivore / Phototroph, Habitat - Deserts

Needle Arm - Melee Grass Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Spikes - Ranged(20ft burst) Ground Effect: 3/day. Place the Spikes Hazard in the area surrounding you. Spikes Hazard has the following ability: When a foe moves through Spikes Hazard during their turn and are on the ground, they lose 1/6th of their Max HP. This Hazard disappears after 2 mins.

Evolution: Cacnea

Cacturne

Proficiencies: Dark / Grass / Prickly / Tricky

346

Cacturne become active in the dead of night, when de-

Capsakid dwell in hot, dry climates. Though small in size,

sert temperatures often drop to near-freezing levels. They they pack quite a punch. Capsakid photosynthesize in the

do this to prevent themselves from losing precious mois- hot desert sun to produce large quantities of capsaicin. It

ture in the hot, sweltering sun during the day. Cacturne

infuses this chemical into its attacks, causing a burning sen-

hunt in packs, but aren't closely bonded with one another sation that lasts long after its moves make contact. The

like most pack hunters; their relations are purely task-

capsicum is most strongly concentrated in their front teeth,

oriented without personal bonds. In their makeshift groups, Cacturne will follow weary prey from far behind. When prey tries and look behind them, the Cacturne will stop moving and pose as motionless cacti. Eventually, the prey, already weary from the day's heat, will be overcome by paranoia and collapse onto the sand. It is only then that the Cacturne will approach and attack. Oftentimes, the only trace left after Cacturne attacks are piles of dry bones.

which are actually seeds. Capsakid shed these seeds periodically with the seasons, and they are valued in a wide variety of cuisines for their intense heat. Capsakid that spend more time sunbathing produce more capsicum. These Pokťmon can be a bit clumsy at time, especially when their teeth grow heavy. Luckily, the calyxes on their heads protect them from hurting themselves when they stumble.

347

Capsakid / Scovillain 

Capsakid

Grass - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Sprouter (can manipulate plant life)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Insomnia (You are immune to being put to Sleep.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Bullet Seed - Ranged(10ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 1d4. Bullet Seed has -2 during Accuracy Check. Bullet Seed is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Sunny Day - Fire Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Sunny Weather with a 60ft diameter. Within the Sunny weather, Fire-type attacks deal an additional 8 damage and Water-type attacks deal 8 less damage. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

Scovillain

Grass / Fire - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire), Sprouter

Passives: Leer, Chlorophyll (While in Sunny Weather, your Speed is +2.), Insomnia

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)
Spicy Extract - Melee Grass Effect: 3/day. Target an ally, a foe, or yourself. The target's Attack is +3 and the target's Defense is -3 for 10 mins. Spicy Extract cannot miss.
Flamethrower - Ranged(20ft beam) Fire Special Attack: 3/ day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.
Seed Bomb - Ranged(15ft) Grass Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Each head of a Scovillain thinks independently and produces its own capsaicin. They also have their own preferences for attacking styles. The green heads actually produce more capsaicin than the red ones, and it is said that the intense heat has driven them a bit mad. When these heads are stimulated by their own capsaicin, they go on fiery rampages and drag their red heads along with them. In comparison, the red heads of Scovillain tend to be more methodical in their attacks. They channel their heat into Fire-type attacks, breathing out streams of flame to deter attackers. Unlike some other two-headed Pokťmon, Scovillain heads generally get along well enough, as their personalities complement one another. An exception to this is when the weather grows cloudy; the two heads will bicker with one another for more exposure to the partially-shaded sun.

Biology: Egg Group - Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Phototroph, Habitat - Deserts / Mountains

Evolution: Capsakid

Fire Stone Scovillain

Proficiencies: Fire (Scovillain) / Grass / Fangs (no Ice/Electric) (Scovillain)

348

Cherubi / Cherrim 

Cherubi

Cherrim

Grass - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 7

Skills: -

Passives: Growth (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Chlorophyll (While in Sunny Weather, your Speed is +2.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Morning Sun - Melee Normal Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or yourself. The target is healed HP equal to half of the target's Max HP. If you are within Sunny Weather, the target is healed HP equal to 3/4ths of the target's Max HP instead.

Sunny Day - Fire Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Sunny Weather with a 60ft diameter. Within the Sunny weather, Fire-type attacks deal an additional 8 damage and Water-type attacks deal 8 less damage. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

When Cherubi are born, they initially have two equallysized heads. However, as they grow, the two heads compete for dominance, as they cannot photosynthesize enough nutrients to support them both. Eventually, one wins out, and the other withers away into a vestigial ball. The remaining head then use their sibling to supplement their growth; the smaller heads are sweet and packed with nutrients, making them very popular treats for Flying-type predators. Though Cherubi can survive without their second heads, their growth will be severely stunted without the extra nutrients; thus, they protect these heads very fiercely, dashing away from would-be predators with surprising speed. If they don't get enough sunlight, their vivid red coloration will dull, though it will intensify as they approach evolution. Once Cherubi have drained all of the nutrients they can from their second heads, they will bud and the heads will wither away; Cherubi are ready for evolution at this time. They are often seen on tree branches on warm, sunny days.

Grass - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Alluring (attracts others with their aroma), Bloom (Cherrim changes from Overcast to Sunshine forms when the weather is Sunny.)

Passives: Growth, Chlorophyll, Flower Gift (While Cherrim is in Sunny Weather, Cherrim's Attack and Special Defense is +6.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)

Petal Dance - Ranged(5ft burst) Grass Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Petal Dance is a two-turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.

Solar Beam - Ranged(30ft beam) Grass Special Attack: 1/ day 5d12. Solar Beam is a two-turn move unless it is Sunny. On the first turn, do nothing. On the second turn or if it is Sunny, roll Solar Beam's Accuracy Check and damage.

Lucky Chant - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 3/day. Put a Lucky Coat on all allies and yourself. The Coat has the following ability: If you are hit by a Critical Hit, treat the hit as a regular successful hit. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Fairy / Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Phototroph, Habitat - Forests

Evolution: Cherubi

Cherrim

Proficiencies: Grass / Floral

349

When in their standard forms, it is quite easy to completely miss Cherrim while examining the treetops. In its Overcast Form, Cherrim are quiet and immobile, waiting unassumingly in the shade. Once hit by beams of sunlight, however, they bloom into its Sunshine Form. In this form, Cherrim are very active and excitable, basking fully in the sun's rays by facing all of their petals towards it. They use this precious time under the sun to photosynthesize as much energy as they can, since they are unable to do so in its other form. Cherrim also becomes stronger under the sunlight thanks to this extra energy. They can take down foes much larger than themselves by using powerful solar attacks during this time. They can store large amounts of sugars in their bodies, which they use to endure long periods in the Overcast Form. In the Sunshine Form, they appear eternally joyful, while in Overcast Form they seem constantly gloomy. Once the sunlight wanes, Cherrim close their petals and return to the Overcast Form, patiently waiting for the sun to return. Their petals are deceptively tough, protecting them from pecking predators.

Cottonee travel in large groups on light forest breezes. Though rather weak on their own, these Pokťmon find strength in numbers. They float in elusive, cloud-like bunches with other Cottonee, keeping out of reach from most attackers. If isolated, they may become very nervous and frantic; they seem to be calmed, however, by the texture of cotton fabric. If attacked, Cottonee will shoot out puffs of cotton from their bodies. These puffs act as decoys to confuse predators, giving them time escape. In larger quantities, these puffs also irritate the eyes and noses of attackers as well as hinder their movement. The puffs can be harvested and stuffed into pillows, or turned into fabric for clothing. Cottonee can also regrow it quickly, making it an abundant resource in woodland areas. These Pokťmon cannot float well in the rain, as their bodies become too heavy to be carried by the wind when waterlogged. Consequently, when groups of Cottonee sense approaching storms, they will all attempt to cluster under large trees--oftentimes all together under the same one-- in order to stay dry.

350

Cottonee / Whimsicott 

Cottonee

Grass / Fairy - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Flight (can fly), Sprouter (can manipulate plant life)

Passives: Growth (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Prankster (Your attacks that do not deal damage on hit have Priority.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)

Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Whimsicott conceal themselves in chaotic whirlwinds, riding gusts aimlessly as they travel about; they rarely stay in one spot for long. Whimsicott cause mischief wherever they travel. In the wild, this often entails summoning winds to strip rows of trees of their leaves. In houses and buildings, this may mean rearranging furniture with gusts or leaving thin layers of dust blown in from outside on every surface. Wherever Whimsicott cause trouble, however, they always leave a telltale sign--cotton puffs. Handfuls of them can inevitably be found wherever they go, having been shed from their bodies. Especially strong winds may strip their whole heads of cotton. Their soft compositions enable them to squeeze and slip through even the tiniest of gaps; this lets them to infiltrate and cause mischief in virtually any building. Despite their fondness for trickery, however, Whimsicott rarely ever mean to intentionally cause harm; in fact, they will actively intervene in their own pranks if they believe that someone will be hurt. Whimsicott will constantly grow more cotton as long as they remain exposed to sunlight, and thus must groom themselves regularly by pruning off the excess and scattering it to the wind.

Biology: Egg Group - Grass / Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Phototroph, Habitat - Forests / Woodlands

Evolution: Cottonee

Sun Stone Whimsicott

Proficiencies: Fairy / Flying / Grass

Leech Seed - Ranged(10ft) Grass Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target gets a Seed Coat. The Coat has the following ability: At the beginning of your turn, if you are within 20 ft of the enemy who gave you the Seed Coat, you lose 1d12 HP. The enemy who gave you the Seed Coat will gain the same amount of HP that you lost. This Coat lasts for 3 mins, or until you are at 0 or less HP.
Stun Spore - Melee Grass Effect: At-Will. Stun Spore has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Paralyzed.

Whimsicott

Grass / Fairy - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 14 (70 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Amorphous (can squeeze through almost anything), Flight, Guster (can produce wind), Inflatable (can expand), Shrinkable (can shrink), Sprouter

Passives: Growth, Cotton Spore (+2 Speed), Chlorophyll (While in Sunny Weather, your Speed is +2), Infiltrator (Hindering terrain and Walls do not affect you or your attacks), Prankster

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +7)

Gust - Ranged(20ft) Flying Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. If the target is at least 20 ft off the ground airborne, Gust deals +1d20 damage.
Hurricane - Ranged(25ft, 10ft blast) Flying Special Attack: 1/ day 5d12. Hurricane has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Raining. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the targets are Confused.

Moonblast - Ranged(20ft) Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

351

Ferroseed / Ferrothorn 

Ferroseed

Grass / Steel - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 1 (5 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 2

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain), Sinker (can't swim)

Passives: Harden (+1 Defense), Iron Barbs (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, the attacker takes 4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +1, Effect +0)

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Rollout - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Rollout against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Rollout's damage.

Metal Claw - Melee Steel Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.

Ferrothorn

Grass / Steel - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 15 Special Defense: 12

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Climber, Sinker, Threaded (can move around with vines)

Passives: Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Battle Armor (Critical hits are treated as normal hits against you.), Iron Barbs

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)
Power Whip - Melee Grass Attack: 1/day 5d12. Power Whip has -2 during Accuracy Check.
Pin Missile - Ranged(10ft) Bug Attack: At-Will 1d4. Pin Missile has -2 during Accuracy Check. Pin Missile is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Ferroseed are one of the main hazards spelunkers face when exploring mineral-rich caverns. These heavy Pokťmon can be found stuck to the walls and ceilings of caves, absorbing minerals through their spikes. When they have finished draining one location of nutrients, they will roll on walls or drop down from ceilings to new locations--hikers must constantly be aware of what is above them, since Ferroseed can and will drop without any notice. Though unintentionally dangerous, Ferroseed are rather docile Pokťmon. They won't attack unless attacked first, and even when faced by an aggressor, the most a Ferroseed will do is release a burst of spikes before rolling away to safety. Their aim is quite poor without practice, however. Though their spikes make them very poor movers, Ferroseed can spin in place quickly by balancing themselves on the point of a single spike like a top. They have been known to lodge themselves into rocks in this manner. Ferroseed not only absorb minerals from stone through their spikes, but also vital nutrients from the moss that covers cave walls and ceilings.

Flash Cannon - Ranged(20ft) Steel Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Grass / Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Carnivore / Terravore, Habitat - Caves

Evolution: Ferroseed

Ferrothorn

Proficiencies: Grass / Steel / Prickly

352

Fomantis lurk in the tall grasses of jungle clearings,

Ferrothorn dwell in mineral-rich caves, using their three where towering trees have fallen and sunlight can reach

spike-tipped feelers to cling to cavern ceilings and floors. To the forest floor. These creatures are nocturnal; they are

hunt, these creatures hang idly from the tops of caves,

asleep while resting in these clearings, using the grass as

waiting for unsuspecting victims to pass underneath. When cover from predators. As they sleep, they release a sweet,

they come along, Ferrothorn fire barrages of spikes to

invigorating odor resembling that of flowers about to

subdue them before dropping down below to claim their bloom. Fomantis spread the four leaves on top of their

meals. Ferrothorn will also scrape away at cavern walls to heads to gather light through photosynthesis as they sleep

siphon exposed minerals and ores using their spikes. Their to make energy. They need plenty of sugars so that they

feelers are deceptively strong, capable of supporting their are vibrantly colored upon evolution and will viciously

weight and allowing them to "stand" upright on the ground. attack those that disturb them during this process. When

In this stance, Ferrothorn can swing their feelers like flails night falls, Fomantis awaken, close their leaves, and begin

to attack foes. The tips of these feelers are strong enough to search for new clearings, as they may vulnerable to

to pulverize stone. Their hard, spiked bodies protect them predators if they remain in one place for too long. They

from most attackers; however, they are very sensitive to continue this routine--sleeping in sunlight and relocating

heat. Ferrothorn will seek shelter in the damp recesses of during the night--until they evolve.

their caverns if they feel the air warming. Excessive heat

can cause their normally-sturdy bodies to soften slightly,

rendering them vulnerable to further attacks.

353

Fomantis / Lurantis 

Fomantis

Grass - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Alluring (attracts others with their aroma), Sprouter (can manipulate plant life)

Passives: Growth (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Leaf Guard (While in sunny weather, you are cured of any afflictions.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Fury Cutter - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Fury Cutter against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Fury Cutter's damage.
Razor Leaf - Ranged(25ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Razor Leaf is a critical hit.
Ingrain - Self Grass Effect: 1/day. Put a Root Coat on yourself. The Coat has the following ability: At the beginning of your turn, recover 1d12 HP. You may not move. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

Lurantis

Grass - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 14

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Alluring, Sprouter
Passives: Growth, Swords Dance (+2 Attack), Hyper Cutter (Your Attack cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.), Leaf Guard

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +4, Effect +2)

Leaf Blade - Melee Grass Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Leaf Blade is a critical hit.
Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.
Solar Blade - Melee Grass Attack: 1/day 5d12. Solar Blade is a two-turn move unless it is Sunny. On the first turn, do nothing. On the second turn or if it is Sunny, move up to twice your movement speed, then roll Solar Blade's Accuracy Check and damage.

Lurantis utilize their vibrant coloration to disguise themselves as flowers and lure in prey. They further this charade by emitting a sweet floral scent. Lurantis grow very close to trainers that take meticulous care of their appearances, but dislike lazy ones that let their colors dull. These Pokťmon have sickle-like petals to slice prey cleanly in two. The petals can also concentrate gathered sunlight into beams when using attacks. These beams can cut straight through rock. When Lurantis attack, their movements are so elegant that they are often likened to dancing.

Biology: Egg Group - Grass / Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Carnivore / Phototroph, Habitat - Jungles

Evolution: Fomantis

Lurantis

Proficiencies: Grass / Floral / Slashing

354

Foongus / Amoonguss 

Foongus

Grass / Poison - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Shrinkable (can shrink)
Passives: Growth (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Effect Spore (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, randomly either Paralyze, Poison, or put to Sleep the attacker.)

Foongus are known for their oddly-patterned caps, which resemble the faces of Pokť Balls. For years, these curious adaptations baffled scientists because the caps did not have the gloss, size, or shape of true Pokť Balls; laboratory experiments have revealed that the vast majority of wild Pokťmon, when showed a real Pokť Ball and then a Foongus cap, did not mistake one for the other. A recent, promising hypothesis regarding the cap pattern postulates that while the design is unconvincing from close range, it is sufficient for deterring Flying-type Pokťmon--one of their major groups of predators--flying above. In addition to this questionable camouflage, Foongus also have the ability to release itchy spores to defend themselves from foes. Unfortunately, Foongus spores are still one of the most common poisons traveling trainers are afflicted with. Because they resemble Pokť Balls when seen from above, many careless trainers approach them and are subsequently doused with their itchy spores.

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +1)
Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Bide - Ranged(25ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Bide is a three-turn move. On the first and second turns, do nothing. On the third turn, release energy; all characters within range take damage equal to twice the damage you took since the first turn of Bide.
Feint Attack - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense.

Amoonguss

Grass/Poison - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 66 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Shrinkable, Sprouter (can manipulate plant life), Repulsive (repels others with a foul smell)

Passives: Growth, Effect Spore, Regenerator (When returned to a Poke Ball, you recover to Max HP after being stored for 1 hour.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +5, Effect +1)

Biology: Egg Group - Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Saprophyte, Habitat - Fields / Forests

Evolution: Foongus

Amoonguss

Proficiencies: Grass / Poison / Lepidopteran / Parasitic

Giga Drain - Melee Grass Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Ingrain - Self Grass Effect: 1/day. Put a Root Coat on yourself. The Coat has the following ability: At the beginning of your turn, recover 1d12 HP. You may not move. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.
Spore - Melee Grass Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is put to Sleep.

355

While the crypsis of Foongus is arguably useful in certain Gossifleur are wandering Pokťmon that go wherever the

situations, that of Amoonguss has been proven to have no wind blows--literally. By twisting their petals, they can

use at all, even possibly being detrimental to their survival. control their flight paths subtly as they drift in the breeze.

While their caps resemble Pokť Balls, their texture, shape, Gossifleur will temporarily settle down wherever they find

and size make them difficult to mistake for the real thing clean water and air. In such areas, they will land en masse

from any angle at all. In the damp, dark areas where

and anchor themselves into the soil with their single legs,

Amoonguss dwell, low light levels make such camouflage forming vibrant fields. As they absorb sunlight, their

even less effective, as the red coloration of the caps are

flowers will begin to bloom beautifully. Finally, when

dulled and made even less recognizable. Rather than

Gossifleur have had their fill, they will uproot themselves

providing a survival advantage, their cap designs appear to and begin drifting again, singing a joyous song as they twirl

be remnants of their pre-evolution's survival tactic; because Amoonguss can protect themselves in other ways, their Pokť Ball patterns have survived as well despite contributing little to their survival. Amoonguss are capable of spreading poisonous, incapacitating spores in the air around them. They sway their arm caps and bodies around in intriguing dances to lure in foes, spraying them with their

away in the wind. Fields where Gossifleur rest are popular amongst locals for being filled with their beautiful colors and uplifting melodies. Their pollen has a therapeutic effect, and Gossifleur pollen tea is a popular folk remedy for the common cold. These qualities altogether make Gossifleur a popular Pokťmon in rural areas near pristine, untouched wilderness.

spores once them draw near to paralyze them.

356

Gossifleur / Eldegoss 

Gossifleur

Grass - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 1 (5 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Flight (can fly), Sprouter (can manipulate plant life)

Passives: Regenerator (When returned to a Poke Ball, you recover to Max HP after being stored for 1 hour.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +0)
Leafage - Ranged(20ft) Grass Special Attack: At-Will 1d12.
Round - Ranged(15ft burst) Normal Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. For every time anyone has used Round before you during this round of combat, Round deals +1d10 damage.
Synthesis - Self Grass Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP. If you are within Sunny Weather, you are healed HP equal to 3/4ths of your Max HP instead.

Eldegoss

Eldegoss are perhaps most well-known for the cotton fluff that grows on their heads, which can be spun into a glossy and supple yarn. Eldegoss cotton is commonly used for sleepwear and high-end designer fashion. Eldegoss themselves rely on their cotton fluff to protect their heads from injury as they float on the wind. They also help these light Pokťmon stay aloft by catching the breeze. Their seeds are packed with nutrients; as Eldegoss travel, they disperse their seeds into the land below. Many are eaten by wild Pokťmon, but those that aren't enrich the soil and help future crops grow. Thus, land under Eldegoss migration routes is prized by farmers. Some regions will hold festivals in hopes of attracting migrating Gossifleur and Eldegoss to their farms, cleaning the local area too provide them with pristine air and water.

Biology: Egg Group - Grass / Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet - Phototroph, Habitat - Fields / Meadows

Evolution: Gossifleur

Eldegoss

Grass - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 12

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Alluring (attracts others with their aroma), Flight, Sprouter

Passives: Cotton Guard (+3 Defense), Cotton Spore (+2 Speed), Effect Spore (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, randomly either Paralyze, Poison, or put to Sleep the attacker.), Regenerator

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +4, Effect +4)

Aromatherapy - Melee Grass Effect: 3/day. Target an ally or yourself. Target is cured of all afflictions.

Hyper Voice - Ranged(30ft beam) Normal Special Attack: 1/ day 3d12.

Leaf Storm - Ranged(30ft beam) Grass Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. After use, your Special Attack is -4 for 10 mins.

Proficiencies: Grass

357

Morelull / Shiinotic 

Morelull

Grass / Fairy - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Glow (can produce light)

Passives: Effect Spore (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, randomly either Paralyze, Poison, or put to Sleep the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +1)

Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Astonish - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Moonlight - Melee Fairy Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or
yourself. The target is healed HP equal to half of the tar-
get's Max HP. If you are within Sunny Weather, the target is healed HP equal to 3/4ths of the target's Max HP instead.

Shiinotic

Grass / Fairy - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Glow
Passives: Effect Spore, Rain Dish (If in Raining Weather, you regain 4 HP after you act.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +4, Effect +1)

Confuse Ray - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target becomes Confused.

Morelull are nocturnal creatures that spend the day dozing in the shade of trees; they prefer to dwell in permanently-dark woodlands. While resting, they root their mycelium into the soil and passively draw nutrients; they can also attach to the roots of trees to directly drain resources. When night falls, they relocate to new trees in order to avoid draining areas entirely of their nutrients and killing the plants living in them. Morelull can extend their mycelium surprisingly deep into the soil. By connecting them with others of their kind, they can form complex communication networks and send messages to one another from far away. These Pokťmon can scatter illuminated, pulsating spores from their caps, which can also glow softly. Watching these spores flicker has a noticeable soporific effect. Eventually, the spores will explode in bright, glittering pulses that other Morelull can interpret as various signals, most commonly one warning of danger.

Giga Drain - Melee Grass Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Biology: Egg Group - Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Saprophyte, Habitat - Forests / Woodlands

Moonblast - Ranged(20ft) Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Evolution: Morelull

Shiinotic

Proficiencies: Fairy / Grass / Parasitic / Weird

358

Shiinotic release flickering, glowing spores that induce drowsiness in those that gaze upon them. Staring for too long will cause a person to begin to lose their sense of direction, memory, and even time perception. Shiinotic have a disturbing lack of ability to distinguish between live and dead prey; they will root their finger-like mycelium into victims, whether they are already dead and decomposing or simply dazed by their spores, to sap away at their energy. Travelers that notice pulsating lights deep within the woods should steer away. Shiinotic seem to communicate with one another in ways humans cannot detect; scientists believe that their flickering spores or perhaps mycelium networks may play a role in this. Regardless of how they converse, these Pokťmon seem to work together to ensure that the prey that they select remain unable to escape. They are a surprisingly cooperative species and are known to "share" sapped life force with one another through their mycelium.

Pansage dwell deep in forests and thick woodlands, especially those in warmer areas. They are friendly Pokťmon that often approach strangers; many of them sometimes congregate around travelers. They spend much of their time up in the treetops, though they will wander around the forest floor in search of their favorite food-Berries. Pansage are skilled in locating Berries and are very knowledgeable about their various effects. They are known to share Berries with injured Pokťmon and humans, curing ailments like poisoning, paralysis, and burns with the different Berries they have foraged. they will also lead hungry travelers to Berry bushes and thickets where they can find food. The leaves in the small tufts on their heads contain a potent combination of various aromatic compounds that is highly effective at relieving stress and weariness. Pansage may offer one of their leaves to tired travelers after showing them Berry bushes, revitalizing them and allowing them to continue their journeys with renewed vigor.

359

Pansage / Simisage 

Pansage

Grass - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain), Threaded (can move around with vines)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Play Nice (+1 Defense), Overgrow (When you are below 20 HP, your Grass-type attacks deal +4 damage)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +3) Scratch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Lick - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d8. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed. Vine Whip - Ranged(20ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 2d8.

Simisage
Grass - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6
Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 10
Skills: Climber, Threaded
Passives: Leer, Play Nice, Overgrow, Prankster (Your attacks that do not deal damage on hit have Priority.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)
Fury Swipes - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Fury Swipes has -2 during Accuracy Check. Fury Swipes is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Seed Bomb - Ranged(15ft) Grass Attack: 3/day 3d10.
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Simisage are highly unpredictable and potentially aggressive. They fearlessly approach those who enter their territories. Though they often harass trespassers by throwing Berries or screeching loudly, though they will not attack unless enraged. They are erratic and can be set off by seemingly nothing at all; conversely, some travelers have reported that trying to attack Simisage only resulted in the Pokťmon becoming amiable and offering food and gifts. They are also prone to sudden mood swings, being cheerful and enthusiastic at one moment and then irate and aggressive the next. Simisage attack by swinging their thorny tails at opponents like clubs. The leaves on their heads are very bitter, but they also contain tremendous amounts of caffeine. People have used these leaves in traditional energy drinks for centuries, steeping them in hot water to extract the caffeine.
Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Jungles / Woodlands
Evolution: Pansage Leaf Stone Simisage
Proficiencies: Grass / Tricky

360

Poltchageist / Sinistcha 

Poltchageist

Grass / Ghost - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Hover (can hover)

Passives: Withdraw (+1 Defense), Hospitality (1/day, the first time you move adjacent to an ally per encounter, they are healed 12 HP.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Legend has it that the first Poltchageist was the soul of a short-tempered tea master who, after driving his loved ones away due to his irritable nature, passed away of a heart attack. His soul is said to have found refuge in the broken, valuable tea caddy he had just finished repairing. After passing through many hands, the caddy eventually emerged to life as Poltchageist. Poltchageist sprinkle their green powder on living beings or the food they consume before recalling it to drain their targets of life force. They also has a compulsive urge to mend broken objects, sealing cracks in cups and furniture with the same powder; for their reason, they commonly are found in dark, abandoned houses, venturing out into towns after nightfall. Poltchageist retain strong senses of decorum when it comes to tea drinking, and will fly into rages when they observe people not adhering to traditional custom.

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral / Amorphous, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Nullivore / Psiotroph, Habitat - Ruins / Urban Abandoned

Evolution: Poltchageist

Sinistcha

Proficiencies: Ghost / Grass / Psychic / Parasitic / Weird

Stun Spore - Melee Grass Effect: At-Will. Stun Spore has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Paralyzed.
Life Dew - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Effect: 1/day. You and any allies in range are each healed HP equal to 1/6th of your Max HP.
Astonish - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Sinistcha

Grass / Ghost - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 12

Skills: Hover

Passives: Withdraw, Heatproof (Fire-type attacks are resisted by you. If you are already resistant to Fire-type, remove an additional damage die.), Hospitality

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +6, Effect +3)
Matcha Gotcha - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d10. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt. On hit, if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.
Mega Drain - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d10. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Shadow Ball - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

361

When Poltchageist evolve into Sinistcha, they transfer

Shroomish dislike harsh light; they stay in the shade of

themselves into chawan of similar value to their original large leaves and trees during the day, only venturing out

caddies. Sinistcha inhabit cool, dark places because

after the sun sets. They feed primarily on rotting plant

sunlight can cause their matcha to deteriorate in color,

matter and particularly prefer damp soil and compost.

flavor, and aroma. For this reason, they are often found

After it rains, large numbers of them can be seen emerging

within cupboards or beneath the floorboards of houses. from their shelters to feed on the wet, decaying plant

After sunset, they emerge in search of prey; they pretend matter on the forest floor. Though they normally have mild

to be tea in order to lure people into drinking them and

personalities, Shroomish will not hesitate to attack foes

enabling them to drain them of life force. This endeavor is with powders if threatened. By shaking their bodies, they

rarely successful, but a single successful feeding can

can release poisonous spores from the top of their heads,

sustain Sinistcha for weeks or even months at a time.

dispersing them in noxious clouds. Inhaling these spores

Sinistcha use the whisks on their heads to stir their matcha, can cause dizziness, nausea, and numbing pain all around

building up energy. They will vigorously whisk themselves the body. Areas with sizable Shroomish populations often

to prepare for battle, growing stronger the longer their

will have signs detailing how to avoid startling wild

enemies wait to attack. Sinistcha collectors gauge the

individuals and how to treat Shroomish poisoning. Notably,

Pokťmon's rarity based on the chawan that they inhabit, these Pokťmon are placated and will not release their

with those having possessed chawan made by famous

spores when fed berries. They may even be occasionally

potters being considered the rarest.

seen holding berries themselves as they scuttle across the

forest floor.

362

Shroomish / Breloom 

Shroomish

Grass - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 5

Skills: -

Passives: Growth (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Effect Spore (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, randomly either Paralyze, Poison, or put to Sleep the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Stun Spore - Melee Grass Effect: At-Will. Stun Spore has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Paralyzed.

Breloom are skilled fighters. While their arms may seem short and stubby, they actually can stretch to deliver powerful punches on par with professional boxers. Breloom are nimble on their feet, with sprightly footwork that allows them to draw very close to their opponents. As they hop from foot to foot, they scatter toxic spores from the clublike growths on their tails--actually hardened clusters of their own spores. The spores daze and weaken opponents, letting Breloom pummel their enemies with quick volleys of virtually invisible punches. Breloom prefer warm, humid climates, feeding on tree leaves and other living plant matter instead of compost like Shroomish. In large quantities, their spores can cause severe indigestion.

Biology: Egg Group - Fairy / Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet - Saprophyte, Habitat - Forests

Evolution: Shroomish

Breloom

Proficiencies: Fighting (Breloom) / Grass / Punches (Breloom)

Breloom

Grass / Fighting - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 14

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Reach (melee range is 15 ft.)

Passives: Growth, Effect Spore, Poison Heal (While afflicted with Poison or Toxification, you are healed instead of damaged by those afflictions. You are cured of Poison or Toxin once you are at Max HP.), Technician (When rolling damage, replace any rolled 1s or 2s with 3.)

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)
Mach Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. Mach Punch has Priority.
Seed Bomb - Ranged(15ft) Grass Attack: 3/day 3d10.
Dynamic Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. Dynamic Punch has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.

363

Skiddo / Gogoat 

Skiddo

Grass - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Threaded (can move around with vines)

Passives: Growth (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Sap Sipper (You are immune to Grass-type attacks. If you would be hit by a Grass-type attack, your Attack is +2 for 10 mins.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Vine Whip - Ranged(20ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 2d8.

Milk Drink - Melee Normal Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or yourself. The target is healed HP equal to half of the target's Max HP.

Gogoat

Grass - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 72 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Groundshaper (can manipulate the ground), Threaded
Passives: Growth, Tail Whip, Grass Pelt (While in Grassy Terrain, your Defense is +2.), Sap Sipper

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)
Aerial Ace - Melee Flying Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense.

Skiddo are a common sight on rural farms and ranches. They are thought to be one of the first Pokťmon domesticated by humans, even before the advent of Pokťmon training--despite their small size, they are capable of carrying people, supplies, and other Pokťmon on their backs for considerable distances. Their usually docile natures and sturdiness are both characteristics that likely made them prime candidates for early humans to domesticate. Additionally, Skiddo don't require food; with ample water and sunlight, their leaves can photosynthesize enough energy to sustain them without draining the food stores of human farmers. Even today, many agricultural workers train Skiddo to carry around supplies; these Pokťmon are also a common sight at petting zoos and fairs, where they give rides to people and Pokťmon. Skiddo have lived alongside humans for so long that they have adapted to their presence; their horns are able to sense the thoughts and emotions of the riders holding them so they know where to go.

Bulldoze - Ranged(20ft burst) Ground Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, all target's Speed are -1 for 10 mins.
Horn Leech - Melee Grass Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Fields / Mountains

Evolution: Skiddo

Gogoat

Proficiencies: Grass / Stampeding (Gogoat)

364

Wild Gogoat can be found scaling rocky cliffsides and

Snover generally live far away from humans, high up on

mountains, which their hooves are specially adapted to

snowy mountain peaks or deep in cold boreal forests. They

climb. They live in herds led by a single individual. These are very inquisitive of people, however, and will approach

leaders are decided through a series of battles in which

human travelers with great curiosity. Large numbers of

they clash horns with one another to establish dominance. them will congregate around human footprints, attempting

These Pokťmon tend to be docile and placid, particularly to discern where they came from. Snover migrate with the

when around humans. Gogoat are far more commonly

seasons; in the winter, they make their way down chilly

seen, however, on farms and pastures; some cities also

mountain slopes, as the cooler weather enables them to

utilize Gogoat as a means of transportation. These

dwell at lower altitudes. It is during this time where human

Pokťmon have adapted to working with humans; in

contact is most likely. Once the weather warms again in the

addition to serving as "handlebars" for bipedal, two-handed spring, they trek back up to their mountain peaks. Their

riders, their horns can also sense the feelings and thoughts bodies also grow edible white fruits along the borders of

of those gripping onto them. This allows Gogoat to ferry people to their destinations without their riders needing to give any explicit instructions.

the white and brown areas of their torsos in the spring, described to taste like frozen candy. In battle, Snover can summon blizzards that obscure the vision of foes with foglike flurries of snow. Once their opponents are blinded,

they will launch balls of ice at them before they have a

chance to retaliate. In particularly harsh weather, these

Pokťmon will root themselves deep beneath the soil to

weather strong winds as well as absorb nutrients and

warm water from below, regulating their temperatures.

365

Snover / Abomasnow 

Snover

Grass / Ice - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Chilled (always cold), Freezer (can create ice)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Snow Warning (As a free action you may deplete one use of Hail and use Hail)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Powder Snow - Ranged(5ft burst) Ice Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.

Razor Leaf - Ranged(25ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Razor Leaf is a critical hit.

Hail - Ice Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Hailing Weather with a 60ft diameter. Anyone who acts within the Hailing weather takes 2d4 damage after acting unless they are Ice Type. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

Abomasnow

Grass / Ice - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Chilled, Freezer
Passives: Leer, Snow Warning, Soundproof (You are immune to sound-based attacks.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)

Abomasnow are very elusive. Abomasnow likely only appear when snow flowers in their habitat bloom, for reasons unknown. Once the last petal falls, these Pokťmon retreat back to some undiscovered location, not appearing again until the next bloom. Abomasnow can whip up terrible blizzards that make it virtually impossible to see; this is likely how they keep themselves hidden. They live exclusively on mountains perpetually covered in snow; whether Abomasnow choose to dwell in snowy areas or make the area they live in snowy is debatable. These Pokťmon are surprisingly quiet, making little to no noise during their everyday lives. No clear photos of these Pokťmon in the wild exist so far, due to the heavy snow that constantly surrounds them. It is said that though elusive, these Pokťmon will appear to protect endangered Snover with their raging blizzards and hammer-like arms.

Swagger - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.
Wood Hammer - Melee Grass Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.
Blizzard - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Ice Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Blizzard has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Hailing. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the targets are Frozen.

Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Phototroph, Habitat - Forests / Mountains / Tundra

Evolution: Snover

Abomasnow

Proficiencies: Grass / Ice / Stampeding (Abomasnow)

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 366

Sunkern / Sunflora 

Sunkern

Grass - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 18 Defense: 3 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Sprouter (can manipulate plant life)
Passives: Growth (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Chlorophyll (While in Sunny Weather, your Speed is +2.)
Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)

Sunkern are among the weakest of all currently known Pokťmon. Most members of the species are aware of this-Sunkern rarely ever move, conserving all the nutrients they obtain from sunlight and in preparation for evolution. In fact, if attacked, they likely will only attempt to shake their leaves weakly at their opponents. They often will seek shelter and protection within treetops, nestling themselves in the nooks and crannies of branches and leaves. In the morning, Sunkern can commonly be seen dropping down onto the ground out of the blue, blown off by strong breezes. They rely almost entirely on the sun, its light, and its warmth to supply the primary factors in their growths. During cooler, cloudier summers, Sunkern will go into hibernation and seem to disappear entirely. Then, the following year, if the summer weather improves, Sunkern populations will appear to explode as masses of hibernating Sunkern reawaken to bask in the warm sunlight.

Biology: Egg Group - Grass / Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Phototroph, Habitat - Fields / Meadows

Evolution: Sunkern

Sun Stone Sunflora

Proficiencies: Grass / Floral

Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Ingrain - Self Grass Effect: 1/day. Put a Root Coat on yourself. The Coat has the following ability: At the beginning of your turn, recover 1d12 HP. You may not move. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.
Grass Whistle - Ranged(20ft burst) Grass Effect: 1/day. Grass Whistle has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, all targets fall Asleep.

Sunflora

Grass - Small (Size), Light (Weight) Hit Points: 48 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 12

Skills: Sprouter

Passives: Growth, Chlorophyll, Early Bird (You roll twice during checks to wake from Sleep and use the higher result.), Solar Power (While in Sunny weather, you deal an additional 4 damage while attacking. After acting in Sunny weather, you take 4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +6, Effect +1)

Giga Drain - Melee Grass Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Solar Beam - Ranged(30ft beam) Grass Special Attack: 1/ day 5d12. Solar Beam is a two-turn move unless it is Sunny. On the first turn, do nothing. On the second turn or if it is Sunny, roll Solar Beam's Accuracy Check and damage.
Sunny Day - Fire Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Sunny Weather with a 60ft diameter. Within the Sunny weather, Fire-type attacks deal an additional 8 damage and Water-type attacks deal 8 less damage. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

367

Sunflora are diurnal Pokťmon; their activity follows the position of the sun in the sky. In the morning, Sunflora begin to stir, opening their petals and turning to face the rising sun. In the afternoon, when the sun is highest in the sky, they move around actively, almost frantically, following the sun as it travels. They slow down again at sunset; then, when night falls, Sunflora close their petals and become completely immobile, repeating the cycle again the next day. The color of a Sunflora's petals also reflects the sun. The brighter and warmer the sunlight that shines on it is, the more vivid its petals become. Oddly, this reaction does not occur when Sunflora are exposed to artificial sunlight, instead only happening when they are bathed in the unfiltered, natural light of the sun. Sunflora subsist almost entirely on sunlight and water, photosynthesizing sugars to create energy for themselves. Though they acquire some trace nutrients by absorbing them from the soil that they tread upon, they obtain the bulk of their consumed energy from the sun.

Tangela vines never stop moving. Though they are closely related to seaweed, they do not require any more water than the average plant. Their vines never stop growing and can regenerate. This allows Tangela to snap off vines painlessly to distract predators and regrow them later as soon as the next day. The swaying of their vines can be mysteriously unnerving to onlookers. Their vines are covered in fine hairs that tickle those caught within and also allow Tangela to use their vines as arms; the hairs can "feel" objects when brushed against them and detect changes in air pressure and humidity. What lies within a Tangela's mass of vines is a mystery, as no one has managed to uncover them. Tangela fiercely resist any attempt to remove their vines. Their vines latch onto anything that moves. If Tangela grab foes that turn out to be too strong, their vines will break off and allow them to escape.

368

Tangela / Tangrowth 

Tangela

Grass - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Reach (melee range is 15 ft.), Threaded (can move around with vines)
Passives: Growth (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Chlorophyll (While in Sunny Weather, your Speed is +2.)
Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)

Constrict - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d6. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Sleep Powder - Melee Grass Effect: At-Will. Sleep Powder has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is put to Sleep.
Vine Whip - Ranged(20ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 2d8.

Tangrowth

Grass - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Tangrowth hide within dense patches of shrubbery, disguising themselves as large bushes. They patiently wait for prey to wander by before ensnaring them with their long vines. These vines are surprisingly similar to kelp. They grow at an amazing rate; during the warm springtime, the vines grow so quickly that it becomes impossible to see the eyes or feet of these Pokťmon. Their arms also appear to be modified bunches of vines. They are capable of extending to twice their normal size, as much of their length is actually stored within the tangles of vines covering up the rest of the Pokťmon's bodies. Tangrowth rarely need to move, as they can bind and carry what they need directly to them. Their vines have spectacular regenerative properties. Should predators bite off one of their arms, for example, Tangrowth would be able to grow them back quickly with no noticeable differences. In fact, they may even break off strands of their own, wriggling vines to distract foes as they flee; the vines will simply regrow later.

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 13 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 12

Skills: Reach (melee range is 25 ft.), Threaded

Passives: Growth, Chlorophyll, Leaf Guard (While in sunny weather, you are cured of any afflictions.), Regenerator (When returned to a Poke Ball, you recover to Max HP after being stored for 1 hour.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +6, Effect +2)

Giga Drain - Melee Grass Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Ancient Power - Ranged(10ft) Rock Special Attack: 1/day 2d8. On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour.

Power Whip - Melee Grass Attack: 1/day 5d12. Power Whip has -2 during Accuracy Check.

Biology: Egg Group - Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Carnivore / Phototroph, Habitat - Plains / Jungles / Wetlands

Evolution: Tangela

Tangrowth

Proficiencies: Grass

369

Applin / Flapple 
/ Appletun / Dipplin / Hydrapple

Applin

Grass / Dragon - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain)

Passives: Withdraw (+1 Defense), Ripen (When you use a Berry, double any effects it has.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)
Splash - Melee Normal Effect: At-Will. Instead of making an Accuracy Check, roll 1d20. On 18 or higher, all adjacent foes are moved 5 ft away from the user.
Astonish - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Endure - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Endure is used as a Reaction. If you would be hit by an attack that would knock you out, use Endure to instead be left with 1 HP.

Flapple

Grass / Dragon - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Withdraw, Hustle (Your attacks against foes have -2 Accuracy. After the first time you miss an attack during an encounter, the -2 Accuracy penalty is removed and you gain +4 Attack until the end of the encounter.) Ripen

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)
Wing Attack - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d8.
Dragon Breath - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: AtWill 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Applin hatch in the branches of apple trees. The first thing they do after emerging from their eggs is bury into the nearest apple in sight. They will remain in these fruits for the rest of their lives. Despite being Dragon-types, Applin are very vulnerable to predation, as they are illequipped to defend themselves. Pokťmon see exposed Applin as easy and delicious meals. As such, these Pokťmon will patiently wait for evolution by hiding in their fruit. Once an Applin buries into an apple, it will leave only its eyes exposed, which have evolved to mimic leaves. As it grows, its tail will also pop out of the other end. Conveniently, Applin obtain all the nutrients they need until evolution from their apples. The type of apple that these Pokťmon choose will determine how they evolve; Applin that bury into tart apples will become Flapple, while those that instead choose sweet apples will become Appletun. Some believe that an Applin personality is also dictated by the exact apple varietal it chooses at birth.

Grav Apple - Ranged(15ft) Grass Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2. 370

Appletun

Grass / Dragon - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 66 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Alluring (attracts others with their aroma)

Passives: Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Ripen, Thick Fat (You take -4 damage from Fire-type attacks and Ice-type attacks.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +1)

Applin that bury into tart apples after hatching will one day evolve into Flapple. Flapple can concentrate the natural acids present in their fruit to concoct a potent chemical mixture. They store this acidic cocktail in their cheeks, spitting it out to catch prey or to defend themselves from attackers; it is strong enough to cause chemical burns on exposed skin. Flapple will hide in the branches of apple trees with their wings folded and their heads down to mimic apples. Applin have in fact fashioned the skins of their apples into their wing membranes. Though resourceful, they are not particularly aerodynamic and must exert a lot of energy to stay aloft. For this reason, they prefer an ambush strategy when hunting and only fly when they need to relocate in search of better hunting grounds or escape from danger.

Headbutt - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned. Dragon Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. Apple Acid - Ranged(15ft) Grass Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2.
Dipplin
Grass / Dragon - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Climber

Passives: Growth (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Withdraw, Ripen, Sticky Hold (You cannot drop held items or have held items stolen from you.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +2)

Bullet Seed - Ranged(10ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 1d4. Bullet Seed has -2 during Accuracy Check. Bullet Seed is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Applin that bury into sweet apples eventually evolve into Dragon Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: 3/day

Appletun. These rotund creatures are quite mild-

3d10.

mannered, spending much of their time lazing about in branches or at the base of trees. Their bodies are coated in a sweet, aromatic nectar that is irresistible to insects, at-

Syrup Bomb - Ranged(15ft) Grass Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

tracting their food right to them. Appletun ears are in fact

functional eyes, though they remain drooped and obscured

much of the time for unknown reasons. Meanwhile, their "helmets" are what remain of their original apples. At a first glance, resting Appletun may seem like sitting ducks when

Biology: Egg Group - Grass / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Orchards

it comes to predators. The very Bug-types they attract to Evolution: Applin

Within a sour apple Flapple,

prey on, however, will actually defend Appletun and their delicious nectar fiercely.

Within a sweet apple Appletun,

Within a syrupy apple Dipplin Hydrapple

Proficiencies: Dragon (Flapple / Appletun / Dipplin) / Grass

371

Hydrapple

Grass / Dragon - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 66 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 13

Skills: -

Passives: Growth, Withdraw, Regenerator (When returned to a Poke Ball, you recover to Max HP after being stored for 1 hour.), Ripen, Sticky Hold

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +6, Effect +2)

Dragon Cheer - Ranged(30ft burst) Dragon Effect: 3/day. Put a Cheer Coat on all allies and yourself. The Coat has the following ability: Your attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20. This Coat lasts for 2 min.
Recover - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP.
Power Whip - Melee Grass Attack: 1/day 5d12. Power Whip has -2 during Accuracy Check.
Sugar-coated apples are a common festival treat in many regions where the fruit grow. If an Applin manages to burrow into one of these syrupy confections, it will eventually evolve into Dipplin. Because of this, these Pokťmon are a popular symbol of summer festivals in many parts of the world. Dipplin produce copious amounts of syrup from their bodies and coat their apples with it. The saccharine, fragrant syrup both attracts prey as well as entrances enemies, lowering their guards and dulling their hostility. Dipplin can also spray this syrup onto attackers to hinder them; as the syrup hardens, it will eventually immobilize them completely. Unlike Flapple and Appletun, Dipplin are actually two separate individuals inhabiting the same fruit, working in sync. Their heads and tails each belong to distinct creatures, both partially concealed by their apples-charmingly referred to as the fore-wyrms and the corewyrms. Dipplin use the large protrusions from their heads as antennae of sorts, sensing changes in air currents to gauge their surroundings.

As Dipplin continue to excrete syrup, they enrobe their apples in successive hardened layers of the substance while slowly consuming the fruit within. Eventually, their apples are replaced entirely with hardened syrup, and they evolve into Hydrapple. The fore-wyrm and core-wyrm gain five additional heads upon doing so, totalling to seven "syrpents," as they are called, residing in the same abode. The central syrpent is the leader, though no decision goes unchallenged by the other members. To hunt, Hydrapple withdraw entirely into their syrup apples, leaving only the Leppa Berry-like protrusions of their commanders' heads sticking out to attract prey. When their victims draw too near, all seven syrpents burst out and aim to immobilize them with syrup. If the meal is large enough, they will all share, but if not, fierce competition will break out to determine who will claim the meal. It is only on the rare occasions where Hydrapple syrpents are able to come to a consensus that the true might of their draconic energy can be unleashed.

372

Exeggcute / Exeggutor 
/ Exeggutor (Island)

Exeggcute

Grass / Psychic - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Modular (consists of 6 parts)

Passives: Chlorophyll (While in Sunny Weather, your Speed is +2.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Barrage - Ranged(10ft) Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Barrage has -2 during Accuracy Check. Barrage is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Hypnosis - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Effect: 3/day. Hypnosis has -4 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is put Asleep.

Bullet Seed - Ranged(10ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 1d4. Bullet Seed has -2 during Accuracy Check. Bullet Seed is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

While they may superficially resemble eggs, Exeggcute are more like seeds. They always must be in groups of six to maintain balance; lone Exeggcute will quickly be joined by five others almost immediately. They can communicate with each other telepathically. If one member of a pack is threatened, the others will swarm the attacker to defend it. Some of their shells may crack as they travel. However, they are surprisingly durable Pokťmon that can survive with cracked or broken shells with little problem. In fact, as these Pokťmon approach evolutions, these cracks become more and more common. These groups of a half-dozen each are considered one Pokťmon--they all can be caught in one Pokť Ball, count as one Pokťmon in battle, and so forth, in part due to their "shared" minds. Since they get distressed if they are unable to have at least six members, it is considered abuse to force Exeggcute in groups of more or less.

Exeggutor

Grass / Psychic - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 13

Skills: Telepath (can read minds)

Passives: Chlorophyll, Harvest (When using a Berry, you only use half of it while still gaining its full effects. You can only use half of a Berry if you have Harvest.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +6, Effect +3)
Psyshock - Ranged(20ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. Psyshock's Accuracy Check is made against the target's Defense.
Wood Hammer - Melee Grass Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.
Egg Bomb - Ranged(15ft) Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Egg Bomb has -2 during Accuracy Check.

373

Exeggutor (Island)

Exeggutor live in large groups. When they migrate, it appears as if entire forests are uprooting and moving themselves. The three heads each speak their minds all at once. As a result, Exeggutor can be very noisy at times. They use telepathy to plan amongst themselves before acting. They are very friendly, both between their heads and to others, so it is rare for them to ever argue. When they do, however, Exeggutor will become confused, especially if they try to move in different directions at once. On occasion, a head of an Exeggutor may fall off. When this occurs, it becomes an Exeggcute and will emit a telepathic call almost immediately to attract five other Exeggcute and become a group. Though not aggressive, Exeggutor are capable of defending themselves when attacked with a variety of moves. They are rarely threatened, though, as their herds give them strength in numbers; few ever want to anger entire "forests."

Grass / Dragon - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 13

Skills: Reach (melee range is 35 ft.), Tall (You have Reach due to your height, but can bend around to occupy a Gigantic area instead. Indoors, you must do so.)

Passives: Chlorophyll, Harvest

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +6, Effect +2)

Stomp - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Dragon Hammer - Melee Dragon Attack: 1/day 3d12. Egg Bomb - Ranged(15ft) Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Egg Bomb has -2 during Accuracy Check.
Biology: Egg Group - Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Phototroph, Habitat - Beaches / Forests / Jungles Evolution: Exeggcute Leaf Stone Exeggutor,
Leaf Stone From Island habitat Island Exeggutor Proficiencies: Dragon (Island Exeggutor) / Grass
/ Psychic (Exeggutor) / Stampeding (Exeggutor / Island Exeggutor)

Island Exeggutor are perhaps one of the most characteristic sights on any beach that has them. Residents are prideful of its height, claiming that bright sunlight and warm weather have allowed the Pokťmon to grow "as it should." It is theorized that thousands of years ago, when the world was much warmer, Exeggutor used to grow as they do on sunny beaches all over the world. Cooling climates forced other populations to adapt and shrink, however. These Pokťmon attack by swinging their long necks down like hammers to smash foes. They also possess fourth heads on their tails. These heads help them spot opponents sneaking up from behind, though they can also attack as well if necessary. Though most predators stay far away from these giant Pokťmon, some have learned to take advantage of their height, zipping around their feet until they lose balance and keel over.

374

Petilil / Lilligant 
/ Lilligant (High Mountain)

Petilil

Grass - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Sprouter (can manipulate plant life)

Petilil thrive in areas with moist, fertile soil. Consequently, places where they are abundant tend to be ideal for growing crops as well. For centuries, farmers used the size of Petilil populations to assess the value of land for agriculture. If the soil quality in an area worsens, the Petilil of the area will group up and migrate to a new patch of land. Due to their specific needs regarding soil fertility and plant life, however, the conversion of their natural habitats into farmland has also had devastating effects on their numbers. Many regions now protect the richly-soiled areas that wild Petilil call home in efforts to preserve the rapidly-declining species. The leaves on their heads serve as their sole method of defense; when attacked, Petilil will flee and shed these leaves as decoys for predators to eat instead, as they will grow back within a day. Petilil that shed frequently tend to be plumper. These leaves are exceptionally bitter, so most foes that taste them will learn to avoid attacking them in the future. Despite their bracing acerbity, though, Petilil leaves are reputed to be very rejuvenating for tired or nauseous people. They are often sold by herbalists as natural remedies for fatigue, and are particularly popular among the elderly.

Passives: Growth (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Chlorophyll (While in Sunny Weather, your Speed is +2.)
Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +4, Effect +1)
Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Leech Seed - Ranged(10ft) Grass Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target gets a Seed Coat. The Coat has the following ability: At the beginning of your turn, if you are within 20 ft of the enemy who gave you the Seed Coat, you lose 1d12 HP. The enemy who gave you the Seed Coat will gain the same amount of HP that you lost. This Coat lasts for 3 mins, or until you are at 0 or less HP.
Sleep Powder - Melee Grass Effect: At-Will. Sleep Powder has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is put to Sleep.

Lilligant

Grass - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 12

Skills: Sprouter

Passives: Quiver Dance (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense, +1 Speed), Chlorophyll, Own Tempo (You are immune to being Confused), Leaf Guard (While in sunny weather, you are cured of any afflictions)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +6, Effect +5)

Teeter Dance - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, all targets are Confused.
Petal Dance - Ranged(5ft burst) Grass Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Petal Dance is a two-turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.
Petal Blizzard - Ranged(10ft burst) Grass Attack: 3/day 3d10.

375

Lilligant are rarely seen in the wild, as they are only found in areas with exceptionally rich soil. They are most famous for the beautiful flowers on their heads; most of the time, they remain closed. They bloom under extremely particular conditions that, even today, researchers have trouble pinpointing; some postulate that the exact conditions may even vary between individuals. It is said that it takes an incredibly skilled and dedicated trainer to coax one to bloom. Upon blossoming, though, they release one of the sweetest fragrances known to man; Lilligant are highly coveted in the practice of aromatherapy for this reason. Individuals each have their own distinct scent based on the soil in which they were raised. Neglecting Lilligant, however, may cause their flowers to wilt. Lilligant are mesmerizing dancers, spending much of their time dancing in the wild.

Lilligant (High Mountain)

Grass / Fighting - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 9
Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 6
Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain), Sprouter
Passives: Quiver Dance, Chlorophyll, Hustle (Your attacks against foes have -2 Accuracy. After the first time you miss an attack during an encounter, the -2 Accuracy penalty is removed and you gain +4 Attack until the end of the encounter.), Leaf Guard

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +6)
Victory Dance - Self Fighting Effect: 1/day. Your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, and Special Defense are all +2 for 5 mins.
Solar Blade - Melee Grass Attack: 1/day 5d12. Solar Blade is a two-turn move unless it is Sunny. On the first turn, do nothing. On the second turn or if it is Sunny, move up to twice your movement speed, then roll Solar Blade's Accuracy Check and damage.
Leaf Blade - Melee Grass Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Leaf Blade is a critical hit.
Biology: Egg Group - Grass / Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Phototroph, Habitat - Forests / Mountain / Woodlands

A far cry from their dainty cousins, Lilligant raised on high mountains are considerably heartier than the common Lilligant. While Petilil are notoriously picky when it comes to their environments, those that do manage to survive in frigid, windy cliffsides may one day evolve into these resilient Pokťmon. These Pokťmon have slimmed down and become less showy in order to conserve resources. However, this has not made them any less captivating to watch; Lilligant dance through combat like a performance. Their legs are highly developed, a necessity in order to wade through the thick fallen snow that is common in their habitats. They waltz around the battlefield with grace and poise, landing well-timed attacks on opponents from all directions. Lilligant rest with their feet positioned askance, ready to shift positions at a moment's notice. Their flowers, while smaller than those of their cousins, exude a peppery scent that energizes those who smell it.

Evolution: Petilil

Sun Stone Lilligant,

Sun Stone

from mountain habitat Lilligant (High Mountain)

Proficiencies: Grass / Fighting (High Mountain Lilligant) / Floral (Lilligant)

376

Carnivine 

Grass - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain), Stealth (can make stealth skill checks), Threaded (can move around with vines)

Passives: Growth (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Chlorophyll (While in Sunny Weather, your Speed is +2.), Levitate (You are immune to Ground-type moves while you are airborne.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +5, Effect +2) Leaf Tornado - Ranged(10ft) Grass Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins. Power Whip - Melee Grass Attack: 1/day 5d12. Power Whip has -2 during Accuracy Check.
Biology: Egg Group - Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 13 Days, Diet Carnivore, Habitat - Forests / Marshes / Swamps Proficiencies: Grass / Fangs

Carnivine can be found in wetlands and damp forests. They use their tentacles to latch onto tree branches, dangling the rest of their bodies below. They remain immobile much of the time, disguising as plants. While waiting, they keep their mouths wide open and drool a sweetly scented saliva that attracts prey towards them. Victims approach expecting fruit or nectar, but instead are met with their jaws, which can shut closed in the blink of an eye. Once Carnivine manage to chomp down on victims, it can take a whole day for them to digest their prey, depending on its size. They can open their jaws 180ļ, acting like landing pads of sorts for aerial prey. They tend to dwell in areas with soil that is acidic and nutrient-poor; scientists hypothesize that they evolved to be carnivorous in order to cope with this. Poor soil quality and low levels of sunlight made it difficult for most Grass-type Pokťmon to subsist solely on photosynthesis, so Carnivine changed to consume living prey instead to survive where other Grass-types could not.

377

Maractus 

Tropius 

Grass - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Grass / Flying - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 7

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 11

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 8

Skills: -

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Cotton Guard (+3 Defense), Cotton Spore (+2 Speed), Chlorophyll (While in Sunny Weather, your Speed is +2.), Storm Drain (Any foe's ranged Water-type attacks within 25ft or any adjacent foe's Water-type attacks are negated and drawn to you. Your Special Attack is +2 until the end of your next turn whenever you negate a Water-type attack.), Water Absorb (When you negate a Water-type attack, heal half the amount of damage your would have taken if you had not negated the attack. *This passive is different than usual for Maractus.)
Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)
Pin Missile - Ranged(10ft) Bug Attack: At-Will 1d4. Pin Missile has -2 during Accuracy Check. Pin Missile is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Petal Dance - Ranged(5ft burst) Grass Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Petal Dance is a two-turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.
Solar Beam - Ranged(30ft beam) Grass Special Attack: 1/ day 5d12. Solar Beam is a two-turn move unless it is Sunny. On the first turn, do nothing. On the second turn or if it is Sunny, roll Solar Beam's Accuracy Check and damage.

Passives: Growth (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Leer (+1 Attack), Chlorophyll (While in Sunny Weather, your Speed is +2.), Harvest (When using a Berry, you only use half of it while still gaining its full effects. You can only use half of a Berry if you have Harvest.), Solar Power (While in Sunny weather, you deal an additional 4 damage while attacking. After acting in Sunny weather, you take 4 damage.)
Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +2)
Air Slash - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. Air Slash has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Body Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed. Body Slam can Paralyze Electric-types.
Leaf Storm - Ranged(30ft beam) Grass Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. After use, your Special Attack is -4 for 10 mins.
Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 13 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Phototroph, Habitat - Jungles
Proficiencies: Flying / Grass / Winged / Stampeding

Biology: Egg Group - Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Phototroph, Habitat - Deserts
Proficiencies: Grass / Floral / Prickly

378

Maractus are commonly found in groups of anywhere from a dozen to two dozen in dry, sandy regions. They can survive on remarkably little water for Grass-type Pokťmon, letting them to tolerate the aridity of barren deserts. Though they are capable of moving, Maractus remain rooted in place for the majority of the day in order to conserve as much energy as possible. They are a diurnal species that cease all movement once the sun sets. The spikes growing out of their bodies help deter predators from attacking them; however, their large size makes it easy for smaller, more agile creatures like young Flying-type Pokťmon to avoid their thorns and feast on their seeds. To deter this, Maractus rhythmically shake their partly-hollow bodies to rattle about the dry seeds stored within. This creates maraca-like sounds that startle such Pokťmon away. The upbeat, rhythmic sounds of groups of Maractus "dancing" is thought to have heavily influenced the music of desert cultures. When it rains, Maractus will gorge themselves on water to last until the next distant rainfall. Once a year, Maractus will all scatter their seeds at once, serving as a vital, if fleeting, food source in barren deserts.
Tropius dwell in equatorial tropical rainforests. The large leaves on their backs can function as wings, allowing them to fly above dense forest canopies in search of their favorite food--fruits. Tropius grows fruit around their necks, possibly because of their highly specific diets. Tropius, being docile and benevolent Pokťmon, are often more than happy to share their crops. In the spring, Tropius will release pollen from their necks that fertilizes the trees they consume fruit from. Tropius can supplement their diets by using their wing-leaves to photosynthesize. In tropical regions Tropius are sometimes raised domestically for their fruit.
379

Rhyhorn / Rhydon / Rhyperior 

Rhyhorn

Ground / Rock - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Groundshaper (can manipulate the ground),

Passives: Scary Face (+2 Speed), Lightning Rod (Any foe's ranged Electric-type attacks within 25ft or any adjacent foe's Electric-type attacks are negated and drawn to you. Your Special Attack is +2 until the end of your next turn whenever you negate an Electric-type attack.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +1, Effect +2)

Smack Down - Ranged(25ft) Rock Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, Smack Down knocks the target out of the air, removing any Ground-type immunities and disabling the target's ability to move in the air for 2 mins.

Stomp - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Bulldoze - Ranged(20ft burst) Ground Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, all target's Speed are -1 for 10 mins.

Rhydon

Ground / Rock - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 66 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Groundshaper

Passives: Scary Face, Lightning Rod, Rock Head (Your attacks that damage yourself on hit do not damage yourself.)

Rhyhorn bones are hundreds of times harder than those of humans and resemble solid rock. Often, they will often charge at something but forget why they began charging in the first-place mid-run; they will not stop running until they tire out and collapse from exhaustion. Sometimes, destroying things help Rhyhorn remember why they began running. Their short feet make it difficult for them to turn, so they can only run in straight lines. Oftentimes, they will not even register pain from their collisions until the next day. Though wild Rhyhorn can be very aggressive, trained ones are known to be very affectionate and protective of their trainers.

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Hammer Arm - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Rock Blast - Ranged(10ft) Rock Attack: At-Will 1d4. Rock Blast has -2 during Accuracy Check. Rock Blast is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Drill Run - Melee Ground Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Drill Run is a critical hit.

380

Rhydon armor allows them to withstand magma temperatures, which is abundant in the deep caverns some of them live in. Their drill-like horns can bore through boulders and even solid diamond. Rhydon armor is incredibly sturdy, withstanding most kinds of brute force. However, their armor also renders them insensitive to most physical sensations, including pain, as a result. Consequently, they will often unwittingly injure themselves. Notably, though their near-impervious armor does not protect them from water, its thickness prevents their pain receptors from activating in response to getting wet until the Pokťmon are already drenched. Rhydon tend to live in hot, dry areas because of this.

Rhyperior

Ground / Rock - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 72 Defense: 13 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 14

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Groundshaper

Rhyperior live in areas with lots of exposed, loose rocks. They sometimes make their way into artificial quarries to use the mined stone in battle. They can shove rocks into the holes in their hands; by quickly tightening and expanding their arm muscles, they can launch out these rocks like missiles. Their durable carapaces are capable of withstanding explosive volcanic eruptions. In battle, they will often wait for the foe to strike first, letting the attacks bounce off of their bodies before counterattacking with their drills at close range. Rhyperior also use these drills to dig through mountains and cliffs. They can then use the rubble as more ammo for their attacks. If threatened without any rocks available, they are still more than capable of defending themselves. They can swing their club-like tails at opponents when threatened; their immense weight often makes such blows crippling, if not outright fatal.

Passives: Scary Face, Lightning Rod, Reckless (Your attacks that damage yourself on hit, deal +4 damage.), Rock Head, Solid Rock (Super-effective attacks against you deal ≠4 damage.)
Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)
Earthquake - Ranged(30ft burst) Ground Attack: 1/day 3d12.
Megahorn - Melee Bug Attack: 1/day 5d12.
Rock Wrecker - Ranged(25ft, 10ft blast) Rock Attack: 1/day 5d20. Rock Wrecker has a recharge turn and -2 during Accuracy Check.

Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Badlands / Caves / Plains / Mountains / Savannas

Evolution: Rhyhorn

Rhydon

Rhyperior

Proficiencies: Ground / Rock / Horned / Munition (Rhyperior) / Stampeding

381

Sandile / Krokorok / Krookodile 

Sandile

Ground / Dark - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Burrow (moves through earth easily)

Passives: Moxie (+1 Attack)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Assurance - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target was already attacked this round, Assurance deals +1d8 damage.
Mud-Slap - Ranged(5ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 1d6. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.

Krokorok

Ground / Dark - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Burrow

Passives: Moxie, Anger Point (When hit by a critical hit, raise Attack +6 for 10 mins.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Swagger - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Dig - Melee Ground Attack: 3/day 3d10. Dig is a two-turn move. On the first turn, burrow up to 40 ft straight down. On the second turn, burrow up to your movement speed +40 ft, then you can roll Dig's Accuracy Check and damage.

Sandile dwell in arid and sandy deserts. They spend most of their time submerged in the sand, leaving only their nostrils and eyes above the surface. Because Sandile are cold-blooded, they rely on the outside environment to regulate their body temperatures. During the sweltering heat of the daytime, staying buried in the sand keeps them cool. At night, however, when temperatures drop drastically, these Pokťmon rely on the heat retained in the sand from the daytime to stay warm. Sandile also have dark membranes over their eyes; not only do they protect them from blowing sand, but they also shield their eyes from the intense light of the desert sun, absorbing its ultraviolet rays. Though Sandile are predators, desert scarcity and their small stature often leaves them with little choice but scavenging. Sandile are inquisitive towards human travelers, often walking beneath them or tearing holes in their bags to examine their contents. They rarely mean any harm, and may even befriend trekkers if they enjoy their presence. Though normally solitary, Sandile seem to instinctually protect others of their kind if they see any of them being threatened.

382

Krokorok seek out groups of five to seven members for aid in hunting and protection. They are nocturnal predators, though they are known to wander about during the day as well if they have not eaten for a while. As reptiles, they despise the cold, and will bury deep into the desert sand where the day's heat is retained on particularly chilly nights instead of hunting. The black membranes covering their eyes grant Krokorok with infrared vision. This makes them superb hunters, even in the darkness of desert nights, as they can detect prey by their infrared signatures rather than by sight alone. Using their heat-sensitive eyes to locate unwary victims, packs can easily surround and corner their prey before their targets even notice. They will bury extra food in the sand as an emergency cache in case they fail to hunt down a meal in the future.

Krookodile

Ground / Dark - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Burrow, Groundshaper (can manipulate the ground)

Passives: Intimidate (+1 Defense), Moxie, Anger Point

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Sandstorm - Rock Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of

Krookodile have specialized black membranes that allow Sandstorming Weather with a 60ft diameter. Anyone who

Krookodile to zoom in and out on objects up to one mile

acts within the Sandstorming weather takes 2d4 damage

away, allowing them to see amazingly far into the distance. after acting unless they are Rock-type, Ground-type, or

These Pokťmon are known to be very aggressive and terri- Steel-type. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

torial; Krookodile are solitary hunters that are active both during the day and at night. They can swim through sand as if it was water and sneak up on their victims. Then, they

Earthquake - Ranged(30ft burst) Ground Attack: 1/day 3d12.

jump out and crunch their prey with their powerful jaws. Krookodile instinctively bite down on anything moving in front of them, no matter what size or shape. Once they chomp down on something, they will not let go until their victim appears unconscious; they will twist their heads violently to tear prey in half. The best course of action when

Outrage - Melee Dragon Attack: 1/day 5d12. Outrage is a two-turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.

confronted by a Krookodile is to remain totally still, as

these Pokťmon tend to ignore things that are not in mo-

tion.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Monster, Egg Hatch Rate - 10

Days, Diet - Carnivore, Habitat - Deserts

Evolution: Sandile

Krokorok

Krookodile

Proficiencies: Dark / Ground / Fangs / Stampeding (Krookodile)

383

Trapinch / Vibrava / Flygon 

Trapinch

Ground - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 1 (5 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Burrow (moves through earth easily), Groundshaper (can manipulate the ground)

Passives: Hyper Cutter (Your Attack cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +0)

Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Arena Trap - Ranged(5ft burst) Ground Effect: 1/day. On hit, all targets are bound in place for 2 mins.

Sand Tomb - Ranged(10ft) Ground Attack: 3/day 1d4. On hit, the target is bound in place for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 damage on its turns.

Vibrava

Ground / Dragon - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Burrow, Flight (can fly), Groundshaper

Passives: Screech (+2 Attack), Hyper Cutter, Levitate (You are immune to Ground-type moves while you are airborne.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Dragon Breath - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: AtWill 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Supersonic - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. Supersonic has -8 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.

Trapinch live in arid deserts. They burrow deep in the sand and dig out bowl-shaped pits, making their nests right in the centers. Rather than actively going out and hunting for food, Trapinch simply wait for unwary prey to stumble into their holes; the steep sides cause additional sand to fall onto anything that tries to escape, only dragging unfortunate victims further in, where Trapinch await with open jaws. Then, Trapinch will simply reconstruct their pits and wait for new victims to fall in. When faced with particularly evasive prey, they may use their lower jaws as shovels to fling sand at their targets and cause them to lose their footing. To sleep, Trapinch burrow underneath the sand of their nests. Their jaws are strong enough to crush boulders as they tunnel. They can survive for a whole week without water; they often have to, since they spend most of their time waiting in their pits. If trainers accidentally fall into a Trapinch pits, it should be noted that Trapinch have very heavy jaws; if their victims manage to tip their heads over, they will have great difficulty righting themselves up again on their own.

Bug Buzz - Ranged(20ft) Bug Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

384

Vibrava have grown wings but are not yet capable of flying very long distances. Instead, Vibrava use their wings for hunting and avoiding predators. By vigorously flapping them, they can generate ultrasonic waves that stun foes, sometimes even knocking them out cold. They may achieve a similar effect by swiftly rubbing their wings together. The sonic waves Vibrava generate can induce severe headaches and fainting in people. Once they have stunned their victims, they will breathe dragon flame onto them, dissolving them while they are still alive. They will wait until their meals are partially digested before eating them. If the meal is too large, Vibrava will bury the leftovers beneath the sand to preserve it for a future meal.

Flygon

By flapping their wings, Flygon can whip up huge sandstorms; they can be constantly cloaked in sand wherever they travel. The sound their wings make is eerily similar to that of a singing chorus of women, and it is said to be only sound audible in their storms. Their storms hide their locations from enemies, while their singing lures in prey. The red covers over their eyes protect their vision from abrasive sand, allowing them to navigate without hindrance. They are cooperative leaders in the wild, working with other predators even of other species to cloak both their partner hunter and themselves in a sandstorm and attacking prey together, then splitting the kill.

Ground / Dragon - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)
Hit Points: 48 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8
Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 12 Special Attack: 8
Skills: Burrow, Flight, Groundshaper
Passives: Screech, Hyper Cutter, Levitate, Sheer Force (Your attacks that have additional effects that affect the target may deal +4 damage, but will not have those additional effects.)
Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +4, Effect +5)
Dragon Claw - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 3d10.
Earthquake - Ranged(30ft burst) Ground Attack: 1/day 3d12.
Sandstorm - Rock Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Sandstorming Weather with a 60ft diameter. Anyone who acts within the Sandstorming weather takes 2d4 damage after acting unless they are Rock-type, Ground-type, or Steel-type. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Bug / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Carnivore, Habitat - Deserts

Evolution: Trapinch

Vibrava

Flygon

Proficiencies: Bug / Dragon (Vibrava / Flygon) / Ground / Draconian (Flygon) / Stampeding (Flygon) / Winged (Vibrava / Flygon)

385

Teddiursa / Ursaring / Ursaluna 

Teddiursa

Normal - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 5

Skills: -

Passives: Baby-Doll Eyes (+1 Defense), Quick Feet (While afflicted, your Speed is +2.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Fury Swipes - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Fury Swipes has -2 during Accuracy Check. Fury Swipes is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Feint Attack - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense.
Lick - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d8. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Ursaring

Normal - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Tracker (can follow scents)

Passives: Baby-Doll Eyes, Scary Face (+2 Speed), Guts (While afflicted, your Attack is +2.), Quick Feet, Unnerve (Foes within 25ft of you cannot consume food.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +4, Effect +4)

Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.

Thrash - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. Thrash is a two -turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.

Teddiursa are almost always found with their hands held to their mouths. This is because they are infatuated with the taste of honey, enjoying it so much that they soak their paws in the substance until they are saturated and they can lick honey from them at their leisure. Teddiursa can create their own honey out of pollen and fruit nectar. Each individual has its own taste preferences, and will have different recipes to suit their tastes. As such, no two sets of Teddiursa paws will taste the same. When they find honey in the wild, the crescent marks on their heads will glow. However, they do not immediately eat found honey. Instead, they store it in a variety of different hiding places. This practice helps them keep steady food supplies during cold winters when sustenance is scarce. In the wild, they will hole up in caves near one of their hidden stashes when the weather turns cold, waiting patiently for spring to arrive.

Hammer Arm - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

386

Ursaring mark their territories by scratching claw marks into trees. They defend their domains fiercely, and will not hesitate to maul unwary trespassers. Generally, though, they will leave human travelers alone unless provoked. They also defend their young very ferociously, so travelers should be cautious of approaching young Teddiursa; their parents may be nearby. Ursaring are highly competent at climbing trees. However, when searching for Berries, they prefer to simply snap trees in half and pick up fallen ones from the ground. They prefer to sleep high up in treetops. Ursaring also have keen senses of smell, able to distinguish most scents and find food buried deep underground. They are annual hibernators; in the winter, they lie dormant in their dens for months. Curiously, the circles on their chests glow faintly in the moonlight.

Ursaluna

Ground / Normal - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 78 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 14

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Tracker, Strength (very strong)

Passives: Baby-Doll Eyes, Scary Face, Guts, Quick Feet, Unnerve

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Play Rough - Melee Fairy Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Attack is -1 for 10 mins.
Double Edge - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

Headlong Rush - Melee Ground Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Defense and Special Defense are -2 for 10 mins.

Ursaluna (Blood Moon)

Ground / Normal - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 66 Defense: 13 Special Defense: 7

Ursaluna usually evolve from Ursaring when exposed to large quantities of peat. In addition to their soil-like carapaces, Ursaluna are much bulkier and stouter than their previous evolutions, preferring to remain on all fours. Their stronger limbs can help them wade through boggy pits and mires as they search for food, using their incredible senses of smell to scan through the muck. Ursaluna also spend a significant amount of time looking for more peat to bolster their armor. These shell-like coverings are actually made of compacted peat and possess excellent shock-absorbing characteristics. Ursaluna can manipulate this peat to cover vulnerable sections of their bodies, making them deceptively adaptive during combat. In the rare event that these hulking Pokťmon require speed, they can even redistribute their peat to optimize for agility. When Ursaluna stand on their hind legs, they shift their peat to balance themselves much like other Pokťmon use their tails.

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 14

Skills: Tracker, Strength

Passives: Baby-Doll Eyes, Scary Face, Guts, Quick Feet, Scrappy (Your Normal-type and Fighting-type attacks can hit Ghost-type targets.),

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +7, Effect +3)

Moonblast - Ranged(20ft) Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Earth Power - Ranged(15ft) Ground Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Blood Moon - Ranged(5ft burst) Normal Special Attack: 1/ day 5d12.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Mountains / Tundra

Evolution: Teddiursa

Ursaring

Ursaluna,

unusual moon event Ursaluna (Blood Moon)

Proficiencies: Fighting / Ground (Ursaluna) / Normal Block (No Special Attacks) (Ursaluna) / Normal Block (No Attack stat Moves) (Ursaluna (Blood Moon)) / Stampeding (Ursaring / Ursaluna / Ursaluna (Blood Moon))

387

Baltoy / Claydol 

Baltoy

Ground / Psychic - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Hover (can hover), Telekinetic (can move things with their mind),

Passives: Harden (+1 Defense), Levitate (You are immune to Ground-type moves while you are airborne.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Mud-Slap - Ranged(5ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 1d6. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.
Heal Block - Ranged(30ft burst) Psychic Effect: 1/day. All affected targets cannot be healed or heal for 1 minute.

Claydol

Ground / Psychic - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 13 Special Defense: 13

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Hover, Telekinetic
Passives: Cosmic Power (+1 Defense, +1 Special Defense), Harden, Levitate

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Extrasensory - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Ancient Power - Ranged(10ft) Rock Special Attack: 1/day 2d8. On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour.
Hyper Beam - Ranged(25ft beam) Normal Special Attack: 1/ day 5d20. Hyper Beam has a recharge turn and -2 during Accuracy Check.

Baltoy were first discovered in an ancient desert ruin, buried in the tomb of a young king. They spin with perfect balance as they wander around on the ground or while floating through the air. When Baltoy find other Baltoy, they will congregate together and begin crying in unison, drawing more Baltoy to the area. They seem to have a particular affinity for congregating around buried tombs and ruins. Baltoy have spectacular senses of balance, capable of spinning on their feet even while sleeping. At times, Baltoy may be found spinning on their heads instead of their feet. Why they do so is unknown, as spinning in this manner does not improve their locomotion.

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore / Terravore, Habitat - Ruins

Evolution: Baltoy

Claydol

Proficiencies: Ground / Psychic / Rock / Elemental Attack I / Weird

388

Claydol travel about by levitating above the ground via telekinesis; they even sleep while levitating. The eyes on their torsos are false markings. Their true eyes are the numerous red circles surrounding their heads, each of which acts independently. Their arms are not attached to their bodies, floating freely but controlled by telekinesis. They can fire destructive beams out of the tips of their arms, capable of reducing stone structures to rubble. Claydol began mysteriously appearing nearby ancient desert ruins around the same time the first Baltoy was found. The ruins they hover around date back over twenty thousand years, leading many to speculate that Claydol are at least as old. Claydol begin to deform upon contact with water and will protect themselves with barriers of psychic energy if they are continuously exposed during rainy weather.

Cubone and their evolutions Marowak have a very complex social structure, revolving primarily around solitude, worth, and bones. In a tribe of Marowak, the bones of ancestors are kept and treasured as heirlooms, passed on through generations. When born, Cubone do not see their mothers, as their eggs are abandoned in the wild. They are born with closed eyes far away from their tribes, with only a bone and a skull to protect themselves. They then simply wander aimlessly, wearing the skulls as helmets and using the bones as weapons. It is commonly believed that these bones are the remains of their mothers, though in reality, they are bones of long passed Marowak left by their living parents. Most Cubone are traumatized by abandonment, crying mournfully into their skulls to create a rattling sound. They often look up on nights of full moons and cry. They are antisocial Pokťmon; since they are so isolated, they do not know how to interact with others.

389

Cubone / Marowak 

Cubone

Ground - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 4

Skills: -

Passives: Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Growl (+1 Defense), Leer (+1 Attack), Lightning Rod (Any foe's ranged Electric-type attacks within 25ft or any adjacent foe's Electric-type attacks are negated and drawn to you. Your Special Attack is +2 until the end of your next turn whenever you negate an Electric-type attack.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)

Hold Back - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Hold Back cannot be used to knock out a target. Instead, the target will still have 1 HP.

Headbutt - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Bone Club - Melee Ground Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Marowak

Ground - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 5

Skills: -
Passives: Focus Energy, Growl, Swords Dance (+2 Attack), Battle Armor (Critical hits are treated as normal hits against you.), Lightning Rod, Rock Head (Your attacks that damage yourself on hit do not damage yourself.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)

Bone Rush - Melee Ground Attack: At-Will 1d4. Bone Rush has -2 during Accuracy Check. Bone Rush is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Marowak no longer grieve about abandonment; instead, their traumatic pasts become fuel for ruthless combat. Marowak possess homing instincts that lead them back to their parents' tribes. They will join these tribes, never learning who their mothers truly were. Their loneliness has hardened them towards all deep social connections. Marowak hardly even communicate with each other, and even more rarely do so with speech. They tap their bones on boulders in specific rhythms to send messages. When a Marowak wishes to compete for a the lead position within a tribe, it may fight the current leader, sometimes to the death. Marowak tribes will keep track of members' passing and maintain protected boneyards, so that future generations can always be able to be left with a club and skull.
Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Badlands / Caves / Mountains / Volcanoes
Evolution: Cubone Marowak,
Proficiencies: Ground / Rock / Slashing

Bonemerang - Ranged(15ft) Ground Attack: 3/day 2d8. Bonemerang is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.

Double Edge - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

Evolution Shift compatible with Cubone family (278)
390

Diglett / Dugtrio 

Diglett

Ground - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 6 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Burrow (moves through earth easily), Sinker (can't swim), Tough Cookie (lowers chance of death)
Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Sand Veil (While in Sandstorming Weather, any foe's attacks made against you have 1 during accuracy check and you don't take damage from Sandstorming weather.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +5)

Scratch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Diglett are very mysterious Pokťmon. They mostly live underground eating plant roots, but pop up on the surface or in caves from time to time. However, they never like to reveal any more than their heads. If a Diglett is forcibly removed from the ground, or is released into an open space of air or water, it will go into shock and flail its feet about in great distress as it looks for ground to submerge itself in. As Diglett tunnel through soil, they leave the land perfectly tilled for crops. This makes them very popular among some farmers, who gladly let a few of them loose into their fields. It is a mutually beneficial relationship; the Diglett till the soil for the farmers, and in turn are allowed to eat the roots of some of crops before harvest. Diglett traveling near the surface often leave trails of displaced soil, making them rather easy to track. Wild Diglett tend not to stay aboveground for long, as their thin skin is sensitive to light. They make most of their aboveground travels at night for this reason.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Caves / Deserts

Evolution: Diglett

Dugtrio

Proficiencies: Dark (Melee Attacks) / Ground / Rock

Arena Trap - Ranged(5ft burst) Ground Effect: 1/day. On hit, all targets are bound in place for 2 mins.
Dig - Melee Ground Attack: 3/day 3d10. Dig is a two-turn move. On the first turn, burrow up to 40 ft straight down. On the second turn, burrow up to your movement speed +40 ft, then you can roll Dig's Accuracy Check and damage.
Dugtrio
Ground - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 24 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 7
Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 6
Skills: Burrow, Groundshaper (can manipulate the ground), Sinker
Passives: Growl, Rototiller (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Sand Force (While in Sandstorming Weather, your Rock-type and Ground-type attacks deal +4 damage and you don't take damage from Sandstorming weather.), Sand Veil
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +6)
Sand Tomb - Ranged(10ft) Ground Attack: 3/day 1d4. On hit, the target is bound in place for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 physical damage on its turns.

Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.

Earthquake - Ranged(30ft burst) Ground Attack: 1/day 3d12.

Evolution Shift compatible with Diglett (Volcanic) family (391)
391

Though Dugtrio look like three Diglett huddled together on the surface they are fused in one body underground. Dugtrio heads tend to think identically as triplets. By loosening the soil with their heads, they make the earth easier to burrow through. Dugtrio can dig at the fastest of all burrowing Pokťmon and can cause minor earthquakes by doing so at depths of over twenty miles below sea level, easily burrowing through even hard bedrock. To defend themselves, Dugtrio burrow deep underground so that their opponents cannot locate where they will strike. Then, they surprise foes by emerging behind them and counter attacking.

Diglett that live near volcanoes tend to be tan and sport a few strands of golden whiskers. These whiskers are thin strands of flexible metal formed from the minerals Diglett gather from the iron-rich soil. Since these Diglett live near magma flows underground, they have to be wary of such activity when burrowing. Their whiskers function like sensors to help them detect changes in air pressure and composition to help them avoid dangerous areas. Diglett will poke their whiskers out of the ground to scan the surroundings before fully emerging, keeping their bodies safe from potential danger. They also use them to communicate with others; swaying whiskers means they are cautious, straight ones mean they are angry, drooping ones mean they are sad, and swishing ones mean they are happy.

392

Diglett / Dugtrio (Volcanic) 

Diglett (Volcanic)

Ground / Steel - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight) Hit Points: 6 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Burrow (moves through earth easily), Sinker (can't swim), Tough Cookie (lowers chance of death)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Tangling Hair (+1 Speed), Sand Veil (While in Sandstorming Weather, any foe's attacks made against you have -1 during accuracy check and you don't take damage from Sandstorming weather.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +5)

Metal Claw - Melee Steel Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.

Mud-Slap - Ranged(5ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 1d6. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.

Volcano dwelling Dugtrio have entire wigs of whiskers upon their heads, forming hard yet flexible helmets of wavy locks. Not only do these whiskers help them sense their surroundings, but they also shield them from aboveground dangers. Though these whiskers weigh them down and slow their movement somewhat, they also help provide them with the strength to break through any underground rock and till volcanic soil. Dugtrio grow their whiskers very slowly. Dugtrio are said to surface when a volcanic eruption is imminent; their whiskers help them detect seismic activity beneath the earth, encouraging them to surface and flee when danger is approaching. Though it is commonly believed that all three heads of these Pokťmon are identical, each head of a Dugtrio does differ slightly in the metal composition of their bodies and whiskers.

Dig - Melee Ground Attack: 3/day 3d10. Dig is a two-turn move. On the first turn, burrow up to 40 ft straight down. On the second turn, burrow up to your movement speed +40 ft, then you can roll Dig's Accuracy Check and damage.
Dugtrio (Volcanic)
Ground / Steel - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 24 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7 Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 6 Skills: Burrow, Groundshaper (can manipulate the ground), Sinker

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Caves / Volcanoes

Evolution: Diglett

Dugtrio

Proficiencies: Dark (Melee Attacks) / Ground / Rock / Steel

Passives: Growl, Rototiller (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Tangling Hair, Sand Force (While in Sandstorming Weather, your Rock-type and Ground-type attacks deal +4 damage and you don't take damage from Sandstorming weather.), Sand Veil

Evolution Shift compatible with Diglett family (389)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +6)
Sand Tomb - Ranged(10ft) Ground Attack: 3/day 1d4. On hit, the target is bound in place for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 physical damage on its turns.
Iron Head - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Earthquake - Ranged(30ft burst) Ground Attack: 1/day 3d12.

393

Drilbur / Excadrill 

Drilbur

Ground - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Burrow (moves through earth easily)
Passives: Hone Claws (+2 Attack), Sand Rush (While in Sandstorming Weather, your Speed is +2 and you don't take damage from Sandstorming weather.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +1, Effect +3)
Scratch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Mud-Slap - Ranged(5ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 1d6. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.
Metal Claw - Melee Steel Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.

Excadrill

Ground / Steel - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 66 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 16

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Burrow

Passives: Swords Dance (+2 Attack), Mold Breaker (Your attacks ignore any passives that would redirect, negate or weaken your attacks.), Sand Force (While in Sandstorming Weather, your Rock-type and Ground-type attacks deal +4 damage and you don't take damage from Sandstorming weather.), Sand Rush

Moves (Attack +8, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)
Dig - Melee Ground Attack: 3/day 3d10. Dig is a two-turn move. On the first turn, burrow up to 40 ft straight down. On the second turn, burrow up to your movement speed +40 ft, then you can roll Dig's Accuracy Check and damage.

Drill Run - Melee Ground Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Drill Run is a critical hit.
Horn Drill - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day. On hit, roll 1d20. On a natural result of 17, 18, 19, or 20, the target is set to 0 HP.

Drilbur can be found in areas with temperate climates and solid, dry ground. They spend most of their time in underground caves and tunnels, primarily surfacing to eat fruits and plant matter. Despite being mostly solitary, Drilbur tend to be very friendly towards other Pokťmon and humans. They sometimes develop mutualistic relationships with people in suburban and rural areas, plowing backyard gardens and orchards in exchange for fruits and Berries. Unruly Drilbur can easily damage entire fields of crops by tearing carelessly through plant roots, so trained individuals are heavily preferred for agricultural purposes. Drilbur burrow by clasping their claws together over their heads and rotating about at high speeds like drills. Drilbur build their nests underground, constructing many tunnels passing through them for travel and ventilation. They leave distinctive mounds of dirt on the surface directly above their nests to help them find their way back home.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Caves, Deserts

Evolution: Drilbur

Excadrill

Proficiencies: Ground / Rock / Steel (Excadrill) / Horned (Excadrill) / Slashing

394

Excadrill are rather territorial Pokťmon, attacking

Gligar cling to steep cliffsides when resting, digging their

intruders that enter their tunnels on sight. They construct pincers and claws into the rocky mountainside to hold on.

long, complex networks of tunnels. Individuals have been They travel by gliding on favorable winds; though they can

found living more than 300 feet below the surface. By

journey very far with this method, they are unable to truly

straightening out their bodies and clasping their claws and fly, and do not flap their wings. Still, they are adept at

blades together in cone-like shapes, they can spin around catching the lightest breezes and traveling in the air. Gligar

rapidly to dig through the earth like drills; their burrowing is live in colonies of roughly a dozen individuals, all nesting on

powerful enough to cut through solid metallic deposits.

the same cliff. To hunt, Gligar soar in search of suitable

Excadrill intentionally construct maze-like tunnel networks prey, dropping down below when they find some. Then,

that only they can navigate. Prey that stumble into their

they stretch out all of their limbs and dive at the faces of

tunnels become lost in the labyrinths, allowing Excadrill to their victims. They latch on with their pincers and then use

easily capture and drag them back to their nest in the

their stingers to inject poison and neutralize prey; then,

hearts of these mazes. The burrowing of these Pokťmon is beneficial for crop growth, as they till soil far more efficiently than most human processes. However, they are also known to cause severe damage to subway networks,

they carry their meals back to their nests without resistance. Gligar can glide silently, so their victims often never see them coming.

drilling through steel wires and tunnels with ease.

395

Gligar / Gliscor 

Gligar

Ground / Flying - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Harden (+1 Defense), Hyper Cutter (Your Attack cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)
Poison Sting - Melee Poison Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.
Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.
Fury Cutter - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Fury Cutter against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Fury Cutter's damage.

Gliscor
Ground / Flying - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 48 Defense: 14 Special Defense: 8
Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 12 Special Attack: 5
Skills: Flight (can fly), Stealth (can make stealth skill checks)
Passives: Harden, Swords Dance (+2 Attack), Hyper Cutter, Poison Heal (While afflicted with Poison or Toxification, you are healed instead of damaged by those afflictions. You are cured of Poison or Toxin once you are at Max HP.), Sand Veil (While in Sandstorming Weather, any foe's attacks made against you have -1 during accuracy check and you don't take damage from Sandstorming weather.)

Gliscor are nocturnal Pokťmon; they spend the day hidden in shaded areas, hanging upside-down from tree branches by their tails. In this position, they will also cloak themselves with their black, cape-like membranes. When night falls, they will remain hanging silently until prey wander by. Then, they swoop down and grasp their victims with their tails before biting their necks to inject their venom. Gliscor will then carry their meals back to their nests, where they will tear into them using their pincer-like claws. They do not flap their wings to fly, but rather catch breezes under their membranes. If there is no wind, they will leap off of trees and use their expertise to glide as far as they can. Gliscor are adept hunters, skilled at targeting the weak points of foes to score critical hits. They navigate through the darkness with echolocation.

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +2, Effect +5)
Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.
Acrobatics - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Acrobatics cannot be used if you have a held item.
X-Scissor - Melee Bug Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Biology: Egg Group - Bug / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Deserts / Forests / Mountains

Evolution: Gligar

Gliscor

Proficiencies: Flying / Ground / Poison / Fangs (Gliscor) / Slashing / Winged

396

Golett / Golurk 

Golett

Ground / Ghost - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Glow (can produce light)

Passives: Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Iron Fist (Your punching attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Mud-Slap - Ranged(5ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 1d6. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.
Shadow Punch - Melee Ghost Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense.
Mega Punch- Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8.

Golett are mysterious Pokťmon that are most often found in ancient ruins and vaults. Analysis of their body compositions have found that these Pokťmon are made primarily of a substance that is strikingly similar to clay, particularly that of the pottery often found in the ruins that Golett inhabit. The ages, composition, and habitats of Golett have left many scientists befuddled as to their origins. Some scientists have speculated that Golett were once inanimate clay statues, brought to life by the lost technological methods of an ancient civilization to defend the society from harm as the first Pokťmon made through artificial means. These creatures seem to compulsively line up nearby boulders into neat rows, forming precise geometric patterns. One final mystery regarding Golett is their energy sources, which are located within their torsos. This energy glows brightly when the Pokťmon attack; to this day, no one has been able to identify exactly what it is. Because of their age, scientists hypothesize that unless their energy is somehow infinite, Golett must run out of energy at some fixed point in time, either in the near or distant future.

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Ergovore / Nullivore, Habitat - Ruins

Evolution: Golett

Golurk

Proficiencies: Ghost / Ground / Bruiser / Punches / Stampeding

Golurk

Ground / Ghost - Huge (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Glow, Flight (can fly), Strength (very strong)

Passives: Iron Defense, Iron Fist, No Guard (You cannot miss your attacks, and attacks made against you cannot miss.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)
Heavy Slam - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. Heavy Slam can only target lighter targets.
Dynamic Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. Dynamic Punch has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.
Phantom Force - Melee Ghost Attack: 1/day 3d12. Phantom Force is a two-turn move. On the first turn, disappear from the battlefield. On the second turn, reappear anywhere within 25 ft of where you vanished, move up to twice your movement speed, and roll Phantom Force's Accuracy Check and damage.

397

Golurk can be found in the ruins of past civilizations,

Hippopotas tend to live and travel in colonies normally

standing guard in old vaults or patrolling decaying

numbering around ten or so members. They live in arid

hallways. Some believe that these Pokťmon were crafted deserts, as they dislike water and cannot tolerate much of

from clay by ancient people and Pokťmon in order to

it in their systems. They have a curious method of traveling,

protect their cities; they follow orders unwaveringly and

in that they do not walk on the sand like most Pokťmon,

unceasingly until told to do otherwise. Ruins of ancient

but rather through it. They wade through sand with most of

fortresses sport artillery platforms believed to be perches their bodies submerged, only leaving their eyes poking

for defending Golurk to fire attacks from. Though it may above the surface. They can travel in this manner just as

not seem like it, Golurk are capable of flight; by pulling their efficiently as other Pokťmon would walking. When

arms and legs into their bodies and expelling their internal Hippopotas wade through sand, they walk with their

energy to propel themselves like rockets they can fly across mouths open and their nostrils shut, surfacing every so

the sky. The mysterious energy inside these

often to breathe. They essentially filter-feed this way,

Pokťmon appears to be infinite, though this has yet to be catching small prey and desert plants hiding in the sand

proven--Golurk can fly for extremely long periods of time and then expelling the grains out from their pores; because

without eating or even tiring. Indeed, this energy appears of this, they are constantly cloaked in veils of swirling sand.

to be so powerful that their bodies can barely contain it; The cloaks help keep germs away and also make it more

almost all known Golurk have cracks running across their difficult for predators to spot them. It is easy to tell male

torsos that indicate this energy attempting to escape, held and female Hippopotas apart; while males have tan-

back by seals patching the seams shut.

colored snouts, females have darker brown-colored ones;

additionally, their patch coloration is also inverted. These

Pokťmon are diurnal, spending nights burrowed in the still-

warm desert sand.

398

Hippopotas / Hippowdon 

Hippopotas

Ground - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Burrow (moves through earth easily)

Passives: Sand Stream (As a free action you may deplete one use of Sandstorm and use Sandstorm.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Yawn - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target falls Asleep after its next turn.
Take Down - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.

Hippowdon are very ill-tempered Pokťmon, prone to attacking anything that angers them on sight. They can open their jaws to a width of nearly seven feet and bite down with enough force to crush a car. They will give only one warning sign before attacking, opening their mouths wide to display their power before rushing at foes to attack. They are normally found with their torsos submerged in sand. As they sit, they store sand in their bodies through the large pores on their backs. When angered, Hippowdon can expel these grains to create powerful sand tornadoes. They are often seen with sand spilling out of their pores, having stored too much while submerged. As they walk, they leave trails of sand behind in their wakes. Despite their poor tempers, Hippowdon are sometimes seen dwelling in close proximity with each other in pods. Pods do not seem to develop close bonds, however, and individuals tend to act on their own during day-to-day activities.

Hippowdon

Ground - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight) Hit Points: 66 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Burrow, Groundshaper (can manipulate the ground)

Passives: Sand Force (While in Sandstorming Weather, your Rock-type and Ground-type attacks deal +4 damage and you don't take damage from Sandstorming weather.), Sand Stream

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Sandstorm - Rock Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Sandstorming Weather with a 60ft diameter. Anyone who acts within the Sandstorming weather takes 2d4 damage after acting unless they are Rock-type, Ground-type, or Steel-type. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Deserts

Evolution: Hippopotas

Hippowdon

Proficiencies: Ground / Fangs / Stampeding (Hippowdon)

Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Earthquake - Ranged(30ft burst) Ground Attack: 1/day 3d12.

399

Mudbray / Mudsdale 

Mudbray

Ground - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Groundshaper (can manipulate the ground)
Passives: Rototiller (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Own Tempo (You are immune to being Confused.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Bulldoze - Ranged(20ft burst) Ground Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, all target's Speed are -1 for 10 mins.

Double Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 2d8. Double Kick is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.

Stomp - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Mudsdale

Ground - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 14

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Groundshaper, Strength (very strong)

Passives: Rototiller, Stamina (+2 Defense), Inner Focus (You are immune to being Stunned.), Own Tempo

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Mudbray are commonly seen on farms and ranches, where they are raised for their sturdiness and strength. They can carry loads weighing over twenty times their own body weight on their backs or dragged behind them. Mudbray can be found across the world, where they roam muddy plains and badlands. Mudbray love to eat and play in mud. Though they are usually compliant Pokťmon when doing so, they can become very defiant when deprived of mud. If kept from it for too long, they will firmly refuse to move entirely until they are allowed to play in the muck. After eating dirt, Mudbray will combine it with water and other substances inside their bodies to create a special mud that they coat their hooves with. This mud gives them the traction necessary to cross both rough and slippery terrain with ease.

High Horsepower - Melee Ground Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Heavy Slam - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. Heavy Slam can only target lighter targets.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Herbivore / Terravore, Habitat - Badlands / Plains

Mega Kick- Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. Mega Kick has -3 during Accuracy Check.

Evolution: Mudbray

Mudsdale

Proficiencies: Ground / Kicks / Stampeding (Mudsdale)

400

Mudsdale are famed for their might and fortitude. Domesticated individuals are a common sight on ranches; they are also used to help travelers transverse rugged terrain, which they have adapted to cross with ease. In addition to their physical sturdiness, Mudsdale are also emotionally solid; they keep calm even in dire situations. Their hooves are coated in thick mud that adds weight to their kicks. They can pulverize boulders with a single blow. Their heavy stomps can also blow holes in asphalt, however, so they are forbidden on some roads. Though slow, Mudsdale can carry over two tons for over three days without rest. It is said they could cross an entire region holding this weight without breaking a sweat. Mudsdale chew dirt and mix it with their saliva to create a special mud, which they spit out and use to cover their bodies and hooves; this mud is resistant to wind and rain, protecting them from the elements as they travel. People used to coat the walls of their homes with Mudsdale mud to provide insulation.

Phanpy nests, essentially vertical dirt pits with a shallow edge to climb out of, can be found near rivers and waterholes. They will mark surrounding trees with their trunks to signal that these areas have been claimed. In the early morning, Phanpy can be seen showering together in rivers, using their snouts as nozzles. They dry themselves off in the sun over the course of the day. Phanpy are very affectionate and playful Pokťmon. Though small, they are strong enough to carry adult humans on their backs. They will often play with their trainers by charging into them, but the force of their impacts can be enough to send their trainers to the ground. Alternatively, they will knock things around with their trunk for fun; this pastime generally can be very destructive to the personal belongings of humans.

401

Phanpy / Donphan 

Phanpy

Ground - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 4

Skills: -

Passives: Defense Curl (+1 Defense), Sand Veil (While in Sandstorming Weather, any foe's attacks made against you have -1 during accuracy check and you don't take damage from Sandstorming weather.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Rollout - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Rollout against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Rollout's damage.
Endure - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Endure is used as a Reaction. If you would be hit by an attack that would knock you out, use Endure to instead be left with 1 HP.

Donphan

Ground - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 13 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Groundshaper (can manipulate the ground)

Passives: Defense Curl, Scary Face (+2 Speed), Sand Veil, Sturdy (If you would be brought from Max HP to 0 or below, you are instead brought to 1 HP.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)
Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Slam has -2 during Accuracy Check.
Earthquake - Ranged(30ft burst) Ground Attack: 1/day 3d12.
Knock Off - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target drops any held items or weapons.

Donphan live in herds of roughly a dozen members. The pecking order in a herd is determined by tusk size; the larger the tusks are, the higher their owners are ranked. Donphan primarily travel by tucking themselves into circular, tire-like shapes and rolling down rocky mountain paths and across level plains. While curled up, their hides can withstand most attacks without being scratched. Once they start rolling, Donphan have great difficulty stopping; they can angle their tusks downwards while spinning to use them as brakes, but this wears down on them greatly.
Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Plains / Mountains
Evolution: Phanpy Donphan
Proficiencies: Ground / Fangs / Horned / Stampeding (Donphan)

402

Sandshrew / Sandslash 

Sandshrew

Ground - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 2

Skills: Burrow (moves through earth easily)

Passives: Defense Curl (+1 Defense), Sand Veil (While in Sandstorming Weather, any foe's attacks made against you have -1 during accuracy check and you don't take damage from Sandstorming weather.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +1, Effect +2)
Scratch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Poison Sting - Melee Poison Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.
Rollout - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Rollout against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Rollout's damage.

Sandshrew live in arid climates, as they hate water. They create burrows underground for shelter. When hunting, they wait near the lips of their burrows, lunging out at unsuspecting prey. Sandshrew can roll up into tight balls when endangered to protect their soft underbellies. Their hides can bounce off many attacks, and are additionally also great shock absorbers. A Sandshrew falling off a cliff, for example, could save itself by rolling into a ball; it would be able to not only survive the impact, but even crawl away mostly unscathed. Their bodies are also configured to live off as little water as possible, since they are extremely weak to the liquid. Sandshrew often curl up into balls on cold nights to prevent dew from building up on their bellies. If wet, they will sunbathe or even travel to volcanic areas to dry off. While rolling up is a sufficient defense against most enemies, Sandshrew can also use poison to defend themselves, as their claws secrete a mild venom. Recently, researchers have discovered that their saliva in fact contains the same poison.
Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Caves / Deserts / Grasslands / Mountains

Sandslash

Ground - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Burrow, Groundshaper (can manipulate the ground),

Passives: Defense Curl, Rototiller (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Swords Dance (+2 Attack), Sand Rush (While in Sandstorming Weather, your Speed is +2 and you don't take damage from Sandstorming weather.), Sand Veil

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.
Dig - Melee Ground Attack: 3/day 3d10. Dig is a two-turn move. On the first turn, burrow up to 40 ft straight down. On the second turn, burrow up to your movement speed +40 ft, then you can roll Dig's Accuracy Check and damage.
Earthquake - Ranged(30ft burst) Ground Attack: 1/day 3d12.

Evolution: Sandshrew

Sandslash

Proficiencies: Ground / Rock / Slashing / Prickly (Sandslash)
Evolution Shift compatible with Sandshrew (Icy Mountain) family (423)

403

Silicobra dwell in sandy, arid deserts. They are reticent

Sandslash are known for their ability to roll up into balls. creatures that dislike confrontation, instead preferring to

However, for them, it is not a fully defensive tactic.

hide themselves within the dunes. If threatened, Silicobra

Sandslash can roll around in their spiky armor and ram into will spew bursts of sand from their nostrils to try and blind

foes, severely damaging them with their spikes. Their claws opponents before burrowing to safety. As they dig, they will

also make them great climbers, so it is not uncommon for swallow sand and store it in their neck pouches to

them to launch aerial spike-attacks at opponents from trees. They can also slash at enemies with their sharp claws, if the spikes on their hides were not enough. However, Sandslash prefer not to fight, and will often simply roll away from confrontation or quickly roll around to whip up cloaks of sand for them to escape. Sandslash burrow through soil at great speeds; occasionally, they move so quickly that one their spikes or claws snap off. Luckily for them, though, these can grow back in as little as a day. Their spikes naturally fall off as new spikes replace older ones; discarded growths were once used by farmers to plow fields. Sandslash also have a two-fold resistance to

replenish their shot sand. As ectotherms, Silicobra rely on the outside environment to regulate their body temperatures. Storing warm sand in their neck pouches helps them stay warm during frigid desert nights. Silicobra are ambush predators that bewilder prey with blasts of sand before striking. They are not very fast, however; prey that manage to flee from these sand blasts can usually make it to safety before Silicobra can catch up. Silicobra with full neck pouches are weighed down even further, ensuring that they will not be able to chase down their quarry.

the heat: they can curl up to protect themselves from the

arid sun or burrow into the cooler earth. In favorable

weather, they may even climb into treetops to take naps.

404

Silicobra / Sandaconda 

Silicobra

Ground - Medium (Size), Light (Weight) Hit Points: 30 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Burrow (moves through earth easily), Groundshaper (can manipulate the ground)

Passives: Shed Skin (After acting, you may roll 1d4. On 4, you are cured of any afflictions.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Wrap - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 physical damage on its turns.
Brutal Swing - Melee(5ft burst) Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8.
Bulldoze - Ranged(20ft burst) Ground Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, all target's Speed are -1 for 10 mins.

Sandaconda coil their bodies into tight spirals, so they can contract and then release themselves like springs to blast sand with great force. Their larger neck sacs can hold up to one-hundred pounds of sand. The resilient sacs can act like shock absorbers and are tough enough to resist many threats. By expelling all of this sand at once, Sandaconda can whip up huge sandstorms. They use this technique both to hunt as well as escape from confused predators. Sandaconda are not venomous and instead prefer to construct prey until they suffocate with their powerful bodies. Though a bit arrogant when full of sand, these Pokťmon become quite restless when low on it, as they are nearly defenseless when their neck sacs are empty. Sandaconda mix sharp gravel with their sand to so that they can cut enemies even upon contact with it.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Deserts

Evolution: Silicobra

Sandaconda

Proficiencies: Ground / Fangs

Sandaconda

Ground - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 14 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Burrow, Groundshaper

Passives: Coil (+2 Attack, +1 Defense), Sand Spit (When you are hit by a melee attack, as a free action you may deplete one use of Sandstorm and use Sandstorm immediately.), Sand Veil (While in Sandstorming Weather, any foe's attacks made against you have -1 during accuracy check and you don't take damage from Sandstorming weather.), Shed Skin

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)
Sand Tomb - Ranged(10ft) Ground Attack: 3/day 1d4. On hit, the target is bound in place for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 physical damage on its turns.
Dig - Melee Ground Attack: 3/day 3d10. Dig is a two-turn move. On the first turn, burrow up to 40 ft straight down. On the second turn, burrow up to your movement speed +40 ft, then you can roll Dig's Accuracy Check and damage.

Sandstorm - Rock Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Sandstorming Weather with a 60ft diameter. Anyone who acts within the Sandstorming weather takes 2d4 damage after acting unless they are Rock-type, Ground-type, or Steel-type. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2. 405

Toedscool / Toedscruel 

Toedscool

Ground / Grass - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight) Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain),

Passives: Mycelium Might (When using an attack that can cause afflictions, ignore any immunities that foes may have when applying the affliction.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Poison Powder - Melee Poison Effect: At-Will. Poison Powder has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Poisoned.
Stun Spore - Melee Grass Effect: At-Will. Stun Spore has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Paralyzed.

Toedscruel

Ground / Grass - Large (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 12

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Climber

Passives: Growth (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Mycelium Might

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +5)
Wrap - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 physical damage on its turns.
Power Whip - Melee Grass Attack: 1/day 5d12. Power Whip has -2 during Accuracy Check.
Earth Power - Ranged(15ft) Ground Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Toedscool live deep within damp woodlands. They are very wary of humans and will hide if they sense approaching travelers. Toedscool tentacles are actually modified mycelia that function like legs. Toedscool can sprint shockingly fast, and can accelerate to a sprint in a flash. When travelers in woodland areas make loud noises, it is not uncommon for the sounds to spook Toedscool into dashing out from behind the surrounding trees in every direction. As they run, they may shed the flaps of flesh that hang from the lower halves of their bodies. These flaps are valued for both their delicate taste and their chewy textures, and foragers will periodically search through Toedscool habitats in search of discarded flaps. Toedscool absorb nutrients through their mycelia, feeding on the decaying material scattered across forest floors.

Biology: Egg Group - Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Omnivore, Saprophyte, Habitat - Forests / Grasslands

Evolution: Toedscool

Toedscruel

Proficiencies: Ground (Special Attacks) / Grass / Parasitic

406

All travelers are unwelcome guests in Toedscruel territory, as they despise having to deal with strangers. These Pokťmon form large colonies deep within forests where people seldom venture. Using their ten tentacle-like mycelia, Toedscruel strangle and suck nutrients from their prey, which is said to be an agonizing experience. Once drained, their husks degrade into the soil, enriching it and thickening the forest cover Toedscruel conceal themselves within. Despite their antipathy for humans, daring travelers will strike out in search of their colonies in order to harvest their valuable flaps. Discarded periodically, they are coveted as a delicacy in many part of the world, and can be sold for a hefty price. Once a Toedscruel colony realizes they have been found, however, they will make sure their discoverers do not escape, lest they reveal their location to others. The danger behind Toedscruel foraging only increases the value of their flaps on the market.

Yamask surrounded by stone ruins and strangely powered slabs are empowered by the runes they incorporate into their bodies. The runes are usually endowed with energies from Power Spots and in turn, empower these Yamask with strange abilities. These Yamask are known to hide on the sides of giant stone carved murals, completely camouflaged by their stone piece, only revealing themselves if curious about passersby. Yamask will float down and investigate, quickly retreating if met with hostility by levitating away. Yamask feeds on clay and stone in order to maintain its stone piece.

407

Yamask (Stone Ruins) / Runerigus 

Yamask (Stone Ruins)

Ground / Ghost - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Hover (can hover)

Passives: Wandering Spirit (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, you gain all of the offender's ability passives and lose Wandering Spirit, then they gain Wandering Spirit and lose all of their ability passives for 10 mins.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +1, Effect +1)
Disable - Ranged(20ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. For 1 minute, the attack last used by the target may not be used again.
Curse - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. Curse can only be used by Ghost-Type Pokťmon. On hit, you lose hit points equal to 1/3rd of your max HP, then the target is Cursed.
Hex - Ranged(15ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target is afflicted, Hex has 5d8 for damage instead.

Runerigus

Ground / Ghost - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 15 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Groundshaper (can manipulate the ground), Hover
Passives: Wandering Spirit
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)
Shadow Claw - Melee Ghost Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Shadow Claw is a critical hit.
Earthquake - Ranged(30ft burst) Ground Attack: 1/day 3d12.
Destiny Bond - Self Ghost Effect: 1/day. If you are knocked out before your next turn, the offender who caused you to get knocked out has its HP set to 0.

Runerigus are the realized form of an ancient curse painted into a runestone. By absorbing spirit energy around themselves, they have come to life and gained corporeal form. It is not known how the bodies of Runerigus were painted, but some anthropologists speculate they resemble protective symbols against roaming spirits. Ancient druids erected similar spirit-absorbing runes around their villages to keep malicious wandering souls at bay. If one touches a Runerigus, the Runerigus may choose to show all of the horrific memories its soul had suffered throughout both its life and its afterlife.

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral / Amorphous, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Terravore / Psiotroph, Habitat - Ruins

Evolution: Yamask

Runerigus

Proficiencies: Ghost / Ground / Rock / Hexwork / Weird

Evolution Shift compatible with Yamask family (326)
408

409

Stunfisk 

Ground / Electric - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 66 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim), Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Limber (You are immune to being Paralyzed.), Sand Veil (While in Sandstorming Weather, any foe's attacks made against you have -1 during accuracy check and you don't take damage from Sandstorming weather.), Static (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Paralyze the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +1)

Thunder Shock - Ranged(20ft) Electric Special Attack: AtWill 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Mud Bomb - Ranged(10ft) Ground Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.

Muddy Water - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Water Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, any target's Accuracy Checks are -2 during their next turn.

Travelers in wetlands and marshes should always be wary of Stunfisk. These Pokťmon lurk on the muddy beds of stagnant bodies of water, waiting for victims to step on top of them. When they sense pressure, Stunfisk will let loose paralyzing jolts of electricity to immobilize targets and hopefully cause them to fall and drown. The muscles responsible for releasing electricity are also connected to their jaw muscles, causing these Pokťmon to express what many perceive as sadistic smiles upon successfully shocking victims. Stunfisk are capable of withstanding enormous amounts of pressure on their bodies. These Pokťmon do not intentionally attack humans, but they will shock them regardless if stepped upon. If a Stunfisk attempts to shock something that cannot be paralyzed, for example, a fellow Ground-type Pokťmon or a hiker in rubber boots, it will swim and flop away.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Amorphous, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Marshes / Wetlands
Proficiencies: Electric / Ground / Water

Stunfisk who live in caves and marshes with soil that is enriched in metals, particularly iron, resemble claw traps. These Stunfisk are commonly found in damp caves with metallic pit water. Stunfisk wield sharp iron teeth on their bodies that they use to chomp down on unwary passerby. The bodies of Stunfisk are also as sturdy as steel, so they do not mind being stepped on. Their lips are gaudily colored like appetizing berries or mushroom caps to another Pokťmon. When victims come by to investigate, they swing their tails forward to meet their heads, clamping down the jagged barbs that line their fins like interlocking teeth.
410

Stunfisk (Iron-rich) 

Ground / Steel - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 66 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Flopper, Gilled, Swimmer

Passives: Limber (You are immune to being Paralyzed.), Mimicry (After acting, your type changes to reflect your current surroundings. If you are in a grassy field, Grass type; if you are in water, Water type; if you are on a mountain, Rock type; etc.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +1)
Metal Claw - Melee Steel Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.
Mud Shot - Ranged(10ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Snap Trap - Melee Grass Attack: 3/day 2d6. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1 min.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Amorphous, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Marshes / Wetlands
Proficiencies: Ground / Steel / Water

411

Mime Jr. / Mr. Mime (Icy Mountain) / Mr. Rime 

Mime Jr.

Psychic / Fairy - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 12 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)

Passives: Meditate (+1 Attack), Soundproof (You are immune to sound-based attacks.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Double Slap - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Double Slap has -2 during Accuracy Check. Double Slap is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Encore - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. If the target can, it must use the last move it did for the next 3 rounds or until it no longer can.

Mr. Mime (Icy Mountain)

Ice / Psychic - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Freezer (can create ice), Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)

Passives: Screen Cleaner (Whenever you move through a Wall, Hazard, or adjacent to someone with a Coat, destroy all Walls, Hazards and Coats.), Vital Spirit (You are immune to being put to Sleep.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +5)
Icy Wind - Ranged(10ft) Ice Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Double Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 2d8. Double Kick is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.

Mime Jr. can be found wandering through crowded streets in urban areas. They are notable for relying heavily on humans, performing in front of audiences in exchange for food. They are can be mimics, potentially able to perfect copying the facial expressions and body movements of people and Pokťmon. By doing so, they are also able to gain insight into their emotions; Mime Jr. may take advantage of this by focusing on more benevolent, compassionate spirits during their performances in hopes of earning more food. However, they make mistakes often, which will break the illusion. If attacked, they will mimic foes to confuse them, fleeing before they have a chance to react. One may occasionally find Mime Jr. scavenging through dumpsters in search of food; these Pokťmon are known to raid trash bins when they fail to earn enough through performing.

Evolution Shift compatible with Mime Jr. family (567)
412

In chilly regions, Mr. Mime take advantage of slippery ice in their performances. These Mr. Mime instead have wide feet. Their soles chill the ground beneath them to create slick sheets of ice that they can tap-dance on. These Pokťmon are commonly seen performing for food in large cities. In the winter months, they will visit towns that are experiencing snow as traveling troupes, much to the delight of children. Mr. Mime can kick up their ice sheets to use them as attacks in combat. They use their quick footwork to nimbly evade opponents as they freeze the ground beneath them, causing foes to lose their footing and skid on the slippery ice.

Mr. Rime

Ice / Psychic - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Freezer, Telekinetic

Mr. Rime are famous for their incredible talent. When a popular wild Mr. Rime visits a city, residents will flock to see it perform. Both children and adults alike are entertained by their nimble footwork and amusing dancing. Mr. Rime wave their icy canes in time with their steps, and their audiences feel compelled to clap along to the beat as well. The patterns on their bellies exude psychic energy that smoothens their movements and lightens their footsteps; they also have a second sets of eyes to help Mr. Rime stay alert to how the audience is feeling. Mr. Rime can wave their canes to freeze moisture in the air around them, creating sparkling flurries that enrapture onlookers. The horns on their heads act like feelers that sense the audience's anticipation, letting Mr. Rime know how to best thrill them with their next moves.

Passives: Ice Body (If in Hailing weather, you recover 4 HP after you act and you don't take damage from Hailing weather.), Screen Cleaner, Tangled Feet (While you are confused, any foe's attacks made against you have -1 during accuracy check.)
Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)
Freeze-Dry - Ranged(10ft) Ice Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. Freeze-Dry is Super effective against Water types. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.
Sucker Punch - Melee Dark Attack: 1/day 3d8. Sucker Punch is used as a Reaction. When you are a target of a melee move, use Sucker Punch to attack the attacker before the enemy rolls their Accuracy Check against you. You must still roll an accuracy check for Sucker Punch.
Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate - 13 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Mountain / Urban

Evolution: Mime Jr.

From Icy Mountain habitat

Icy Mountain Mr. Mime

Mr. Rime

Proficiencies: Ice (Mr. Mime Icy Mountain / Mr. Rime) / Psychic / Weird

413

Spheal / Sealeo / Walrein 

Spheal

Ice / Water - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Freezer (can create ice)

Passives: Defense Curl (+1 Defense), Ice Body (If in Hailing weather, you recover 4 HP after you act and you don't take damage from Hailing weather.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +1)
Powder Snow - Ranged(5ft burst) Ice Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.
Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Rollout - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Rollout against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Rollout's damage.

Sealeo

Ice / Water - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Fountain, Freezer, Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Defense Curl, Ice Body, Thick Fat (You take -4 damage from Fire-type attacks and Ice-type attacks.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +2)
Swagger - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.
Encore - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. If the target can, it must use the last move it did for the next 3 rounds or until it no longer can.
Ice Ball - Melee Ice Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Ice Ball against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Ice Ball's damage.

Spheal are often found on ice floes, playing together in small groups. They move faster via rolling than waddling, thanks to their rotund shapes. Their spherical bodies, however, are ill-fitted for swimming; Spheal only enter water to cross to new ice floes, and fumble around clumsily as they attempt to reach solid ground. In warmer weather, when ice floes are scarce, Spheal will shelter themselves in icy caves until winter arrives and icebergs become more plentiful. Their thick, plush fur and insulating blubber keep them warm even as they roll around on ice or swim in polar waters. Spheal clap their flippers together to express happiness. When mealtime arrives, large groups of Spheal can become very noisy as they all clap at once cacophonously. When threatened, they coat their bodies in layers of ice and roll into opponents.

414

Sealeo will dive as often as five times a day into the sea in search of prey. When not hunting, they rest in groups atop of floating ice floes. They use their flippers to break apart chunks of ice that get in their way. Their noses are highly sensitive, both to scents and to textures. When these Pokťmon comes across unfamiliar objects, their first instinct is to balance and spin them on their noses. As they do so, they carefully examine their smells and textures to decide whether or not they like them. Sealeo are especially fond of round objects. Rather humorously, Sealeo can often be found balancing their rounder, younger relatives Spheal on their noses; most Spheal seem unshaken by this behavior, however, and often even enjoy the horseplay. Sealeo can learn new tricks very easily, particularly those involving the use of their noses.

Walrein

Ice / Water - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight) Hit Points: 66 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Fountain, Freezer, Swimmer

Passives: Defense Curl, Ice Body, Oblivious (You are immune to Infatuation.), Thick Fat

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)

Body Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if

you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Par-

Walrein are territorial Pokťmon. They will fight fero-

alyzed. Body Slam can Paralyze Electric-types.

ciously with other Walrein over land, with all parties often Hail - Ice Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Hailing

emerging brutally injured and scarred. Only one Walrein

Weather with a 60ft diameter. Anyone who acts within the

will preside over an entire colony of Spheal and Sealeo.

Hailing weather takes 2d4 damage after acting unless

They are willing to defend their colonies with their lives.

they are Ice Type. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

Their thick blubber keeps them insulated against the icy cold. Additionally, the blubber is also able to deflect attacks aimed at them. Their most prized possessions are their grand tusks. Capable of shattering ice blocks, Walrein use them to break through ice floes. In battle, one of their tusks

Blizzard - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Ice Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Blizzard has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Hailing. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the targets are Frozen.

may occasionally break off. Though they will eventually

grow back, the loss of a tusk can be devastating to their status with others of their species. Walrein with short or

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10

deformed tusks are treated as outcasts and shunned

Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Caves / Polar

among other Walrein, as they appear unfit to lead their own colonies.

Evolution: Spheal

Sealeo

Walrein

Proficiencies: Ice / Water / Fangs / Stampeding (Walrein)

415

Swinub / Piloswine / Mamoswine 

Swinub

Ice / Ground - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Freezer (can create ice), Tracker (can follow scents)

Passives: Oblivious (You are immune to Infatuation.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +1, Effect +2)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Powder Snow - Ranged(5ft burst) Ice Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.
Mud-Slap - Ranged(5ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 1d6. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.

Piloswine

Ice / Ground - Large (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 60 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Freezer, Tracker

Passives: Amnesia (+2 Special Defense), Oblivious, Snow Cloak (While in Hailing weather, any foe's attacks made against you have -1 during Accuracy Check and you don't take damage from Hailing weather.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Endure - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Endure is used as a Reaction. If you would be hit by an attack that would knock you out, use Endure to instead be left with 1 HP.
Ice Shard - Ranged(15ft) Ice Attack: At-Will 2d6. Ice Shard has Priority.
Ice Fang - Melee Ice Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is randomly either Stunned or Frozen.

Swinub have very keen senses of smell. In the wild, Swinub use their smell to forage for their favorite food-- truffles. Swinub also have a talent for sniffing out concealed hot springs under ice. Though they themselves have little use for such springs, they do enjoy grazing on the plant life that grows around them. Swinub have rather poor vision, relying mostly on their noses to find their way. When they smell something particularly enticing, they will dash quickly towards it, unaware of any obstacles in their way. Their thick coats of long fur keep them warm on the ice, insulating them from the cold. Although their favorite food is mushrooms, they aren't very picky eaters and will consume nearly anything edible that they manage to locate with their noses.

416

Piloswine have thick coats of fur that keep them insulated even in the subzero temperatures of their natural habitats. However, it also has the side effect of essentially blinding them by covering their eyes, feet, and bodies. Piloswine rely largely on their very powerful senses of smell to navigate. They also have highly developed senses of hearing. They can sound small grunts or snorts and then listen to the returning echoes to locate objects around them. If they sense disturbances, the hairs on their bodies will stand straight; they will also charge in the direction of the sound. Because of their poor vision, they may continue charging repeatedly in the same course, not noticing when foes have moved for a few seconds. Their tusks become harder after fresh snowfalls. Piloswine use these tusks to fend off enemies and dig up food from beneath the frost. Though their legs are short and stubby, their fur-concealed hooves are very rugged, preventing them from skidding as they charge across slippery ice.

Mamoswine
Ice / Ground - Huge (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 66 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 13 Special Attack: 7

Skills: Freezer, Groundshaper (can manipulate the ground), Tracker, Strength (very strong)

Passives: Amnesia, Scary Face (+2 Speed), Oblivious, Snow Cloak, Thick Fat (You take -4 damage from Fire-type attacks and Ice-type attacks.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +5)

Ancient Power - Ranged(10ft) Rock Special Attack: 1/day 2d8. On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour.

Thrash - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. Thrash is a two

Mamoswine have been around since the last major ice age, during which they were thought to have roamed in large herds all around the world. As the climate warmed, glaciers began to retreat, and their populations began to

-turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.

thin. Mamoswine are now very rare in the wild, found only in areas that are permanently frozen over. The species caused much uproar in the scientific community when a

Earthquake - Ranged(30ft burst) Ground Attack: 1/day 3d12.

specimen found in frozen soil dating back 10,000 years was

successfully thawed and, to the world's surprise, woke up dazed but otherwise alive. Scientists already knew that Mamoswine could hibernate for long periods of time and with-

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Caves / Mountains / Tundra

stand subzero temperatures thanks to their thick fur and Evolution: Swinub

Piloswine

Mamoswine

insulating blubber, but the frozen specimen was a testament to their hardiness. Their tusks are made of pure ice, fortunately making the already-rare Pokťmon undesirable

Proficiencies: Ground / Ice / Rock (Mamoswine) / Stampeding (Piloswine / Mamoswine)

to poachers. In colder climates, these tusks grow even larg-

er and more impressive. Despite their size, Mamoswine are

not very aggressive. Because they rarely see people, how-

ever, human contact may frighten them and cause them to

attack.

417

Vanillite / Vanillish / Vanilluxe 

Vanillite

Ice - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Chilled (always cold), Freezer (can create ice), Hover (can hover)

Passives: Harden (+1 Defense), Ice Body (If in Hailing weather, you recover 4 HP after you act and you don't take damage from Hailing weather.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Icicle Spear - Ranged(10ft) Ice Attack: At-Will 1d4. Icicle Spear has -2 during Accuracy Check. Icicle Spear is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Astonish - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Mist - Ice Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Misty Weather with a 60ft diameter. Within the Misty weather, Stats cannot be lowered. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

Vanillish

Ice - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Chilled, Freezer, Hover

Passives: Acid Armor (+2 Defense), Ice Body, Snow Warning (As a free action you may deplete one use of Hail and use Hail.)

Vanillite have ovoid heads covered by slush. This slush is very sensitive to heat and will melt almost immediately once the ambient air temperature rises above freezing point. Touching the slush with a finger will cause it to melt at the point of contact, exposing the icy heads that they cover. To keep their slush from melting, Vanillite will sleep buried within piles of snow. Their breaths can reach freezing temperatures, keeping them cloaked in frosty air. Their breaths can also freeze water in the air to form snow. By blowing frosty air around them, they can keep themselves covered in slush, unless in sweltering heat.

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)
Icy Wind - Ranged(10ft) Ice Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Avalanche - Melee Ice Attack: 3/day 3d8. If you were attacked by the target this round, use 3d12 for damage instead.
Taunt - Ranged(20ft) Dark Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target may only use attacks that target you or your allies for 1 min.

418

Vanillish drink water from glacial streams and store it within their bodies, simultaneously expelling and freezing it from pores in their bodies to keep itself constantly at a freezing temperature. In the wild, they are naturally confined to frozen peaks and glaciers. Though once widespread during a past ice age, areas suitable for Vanillish and their relatives shrank and became isolated from each other during a warming period, separated by bands of warmer temperatures that they could not cross. Today, they can only be found in the icy parts of the wilds and a select few other chilly areas. Vanillish are surprisingly kind Pokťmon; they dislike violence and prefer to immobilize attackers just long enough for them to flee without harming them any further.

Vanilluxe

Ice - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Chilled, Freezer, Hover

Passives: Acid Armor, Ice Body, Snow Cloak (While in Hail-

ing weather, any foe's attacks made against you have -1 dur-

ing Accuracy Check and you don't take damage from Hailing

weather.), Snow Warning, Weak Armor (When you are hit by

a melee attack, your Defense is -3 and your Speed is +3 for

Vanilluxe are two-headed Pokťmon that only dwell in

10 mins.)

the coldest parts of the world. Their heads are slightly different than other multi-headed Pokťmon because they appear to share certain portions of their brains, whereas

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +5, Effect +4) Mirror Shot - Ranged(20ft) Steel Special Attack: At-Will 2d8.

other polycephalic Pokťmon have separate brains entirely. Their heads will experience the same emotions at the same time; they may, however, express the emotions differently with their facial expressions and behaviors. They can sur-

Ice Beam - Ranged(20ft beam) Ice Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.

vive with only one head, however. Vanilluxe drinks large

Blizzard - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Ice Special Attack: 1/day

quantities of glacial water to store within their bodies.

5d12. Blizzard has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's

When both heads feel threatened, Vanilluxe will freeze and Hailing. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check,

violently release their stored water as snow clouds or bliz-

zards. This attack is indiscriminate and can freeze both

friend and foe. The pipe-like structures growing out of their Biology: Egg Group - Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days,

left heads constantly emit icy mist that shrouds them,

Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Caves / Mountains

keeping the ambient air sufficiently cold to prevent their slush from melting and concealing them from attackers. This icy mist eventually settles to create piles of snow.

Evolution: Vanillite Proficiencies: Ice

Vanillish

Vanilluxe

When Vanilluxe stop producing this mist, it is a sign that

they are thirsty need more water to freeze and release.

419

Cetoddle / Cetitan 

Cetoddle

Ice - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 66 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Chilled (always cold), Freezer (can create ice), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Thick Fat (You take -4 damage from Fire-type attacks and Ice-type attacks.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +1, Effect +2)
Powder Snow - Ranged(5ft burst) Ice Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Rest - Self Psychic Effect: 1/day. You may fall Asleep. If you do, you recover your HP to Max HP and are cured of all afflictions. You cannot attempt to wake up or be awoken naturally for 3 rounds.

Cetitan

Ice - Huge (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 102 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Chilled, Freezer, Swimmer

Passives: Amnesia (+2 Special Defense), Growl, Sheer Force (Your attacks that have additional effects that affect the target may deal +4 damage, but will not have those additional effects.), Slush Rush (While in Hailing weather, your Speed is +2. and you don't take damage from Hailing weather), Thick Fat

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Avalanche - Melee Ice Attack: 3/day 3d8. If you were attacked by the target this round, use 3d12 for damage instead.
Body Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed. Body Slam can Paralyze Electric-types.
Double Edge - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

Cetoddle dwell in icy regions. They are always found in pods of roughly five individuals, as they are very friendly and social creatures. They feed on minerals found in snow and ice. Because they are present in such low concentrations, however, Cetoddle have to consume immense quantities of it daily. Cetoddle pods can demolish entire snow banks each day, so they have to travel frequently to find food. After a fresh snowfall, they will gorge themselves happily until they can barely move. Cetoddle pods can often be found playing with one another in fluffy snow. They particularly enjoy rolling down slopes and racing each other to the bottom. Though they rarely encounter humans in the wild, they enjoy playing with them as well-although watchful Cetitan may not share this opinion.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 13 Days, Diet Glacievore / Herbivore, Habitat - Mountains / Tundra

Evolution: Cetoddle

Ice Stone Cetitan

Proficiencies: Ice / Stampeding (Cetitan)

420

Cetitan consume immense quantities of snow and ice to fuel themselves, drawing out trace minerals and nutrients frozen within. A single Cetitan can eat as much snow as an entire Cetoddle pod does in a single day. Their bodies are equipped with powerful muscles, insulated by a very thick layer of blubber that lies just beneath their skin. Their horns are so cold that they freeze the surrounding air. Because of this, they are always coated in a layer of sharp ice. When rival Cetitan encounter one another in the wild, the individual with the smaller horns will yield to the one with the larger ones. Because of their size and might, even other large Pokťmon avoid conflict with them if possible. Despite their fearsome appearances, Cetitan are quite affectionate with young Cetoddle and will protect them fiercely if they are threatened. Even they can grow exasperated with the boundless energy and hyperactivity of their younger relatives, however.

Cubchoo has a solid mucus-like substance constantly dripping out of its nose. It is a supercooled viscous colloid that serves as the source of their ice powers. By sucking this substance back into their noses, Cubchoo can freeze water within their bodies to utilize in Ice-type attacks. Cubchoo will spread the snot on enemies to chill them and slow them down; they are also known to do this to people and Pokťmon they dislike. When Cubchoo are sick, their snot is less sticky and more watery than usual. This consequently also makes their Ice-type attacks weaker.

421

Cubchoo / Beartic 

Cubchoo

Ice - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Chilled (always cold), Freezer (can create ice), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Slush Rush (While in Hailing weather, your Speed is +2 and you don't take damage from Hailing weather.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Powder Snow - Ranged(5ft burst) Ice Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.

Fury Swipes - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Fury Swipes has -2 during Accuracy Check. Fury Swipes is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Endure - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Endure is used as a Reaction. If you would be hit by an attack that would knock you out, use Endure to instead be left with 1 HP.

Beartic

Ice - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Chilled, Freezer, Swimmer

Passives: Growl, Slush Rush, Snow Cloak (While in Hailing weather, any foe's attacks made against you have -1 during Accuracy Check and you don't take damage from Hailing weather.), Swift Swim (While in Raining weather or in water, your Speed is +2.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Icicle Crash - Ranged(15ft) Ice Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Beartic inhabit icy caves and glaciers, particularly those near northern polar oceans and seas. They spend most of their time on four limbs, though they will stand bipedally in order to intimidate foes or reach higher ground. Beartic are capable of exhaling air at subzero temperatures, freezing the surrounding moisture. They use this ability to encase their paws and mouths with claws and fangs of ice, respectively, to attack foes. To cross large stretches of ocean, these Pokťmon will freeze the waters beneath their paws, creating pathways of ice for them to walk on. They are also adept swimmers that spend much of their time hunting in the water; when tired, they will simply freeze the water beneath them to rest, creating new ice floes. With their thick fur and wide paws, Beartic are adapted to moving and living in icy environments.
Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Caves / Glaciers / Polar
Evolution: Cubchoo Beartic
Proficiencies: Ice / Water / Bruiser (Beartic)

Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.

Thrash - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. Thrash is a two -turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.

422

Darumaka / Darmanitan (Icy Mountain) 

Darumaka (Icy Mountain)

Ice - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 2

Skills: Chilled (always cold), Freezer (can create ice)

Passives: Hustle (Your attacks against foes have -2 Accuracy. After the first time you miss an attack during an encounter, the -2 Accuracy penalty is removed and you gain +4 Attack until the end of the encounter.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +1, Effect +2)
Taunt - Ranged(20ft) Dark Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target may only use attacks that target you or your allies for 1 min.
Ice Fang - Melee Ice Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is randomly either Stunned or Frozen.
Headbutt - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Darumaka that have adapted to life in chilly habitats are white. They have an organ that generates cold air that also made their skins blue. Darumaka get more energetic the colder they become, an anomaly amongst species covered in fur. They freeze the air with their breaths to create snowballs and can commonly be seen throwing these snowballs at one another to play. These mischievous Pokťmon may even chuck snowballs at passersby before ducking into snowdrifts to hide. They mean no harm from this, however, and are actually quite friendly when it comes to both humans and other Pokťmon.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Mountains

Evolution: Darumaka

Ice Stone Darmanitan

Proficiencies: Fire (Darmanitan) / Ice / Bruiser (Darmanitan)

Darmanitan (Icy Mountain)
Ice - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight) Hit Points: 66 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6
Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 16 Special Attack: 4
Darmanitan (Icy Mountain) Zen Mode
Ice / Fire - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight) Hit Points: 66 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6
Speed: 14 (70 ft.) Attack: 18 Special Attack: 4
Skills: Chilled, Freezer
Passives: Gorilla Tactics (+1 Attack), Work Up (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Zen Mode (Darmanitan changes to its Zen Mode when it is at or below half of its max HP.)
Moves (Attack +8/+9, Special Attack +2, Effect +5/+7)
Belly Drum - Self Normal Effect: 3/day. You lose HP equal to half of your Max HP, then your Attack is +6 for 10 mins. Ice Punch - Melee Ice Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen. Superpower - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Attack and Defense is -2 for 10 mins.

Evolution Shift compatible with Darumaka family (280)
423

Darmanitan are quite calm and friendly creatures.

During blizzards, they will visit human settlements and explore their surroundings. When spotted, though, they will freeze up and attempt to hide as snowmen. Just after the storms end, they may even play with young children and engage in lighthearted snowball fights. When in more plentiful areas, Darmanitan will store excess food in the snowballs on their heads and carry them back up to their barren homes. They can also freeze these snowballs into hard ice before tackling enemies with great strength. In dire situations, Darmanitan will enter the poorly-named "Zen Mode"--the misnomer derives from their desert counterpart's alternate form. Zen Mode Darmanitan ignite their atrophied fire sacs, going on rampages where they burn everything in sight. These rampages do not end until

Sandshrew inhabit snowy mountains. Their skin is thick and steel-like to help insulate them from the cold; additionally, they are also covered in thin layers of ice. Though this gives them great defensive capabilities, it also hinders their flexibility. Consequently, these Sandshrew cannot curl up into balls. To move, Sandshrew slide across slick ice on their bellies like curling stones. Sandshrew also have developed claws that help them cling onto ice without slipping. When attacked, they will hold tight to the slippery ground in order to keep their soft undersides safe from predators. Their icy bodies allow them to launch themselves along the ground at quick speeds to attack or flee from danger.

their internal fires dissipate. Their own snow may even

begin to melt from the sheer heat that they emanate.

Darmanitan must rest for a long time after entering Zen

Mode in order to regain their strength; they look even

more like snowmen when they are sleeping.

424

Sandshrew / Sandslash (Icy Mountain) 

Sandshrew (Icy Mountain)

Ice / Steel - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 1

Skills: Burrow (moves through earth easily), Freezer (can create ice),

Passives: Defense Curl (+1 Defense), Snow Cloak (While in Hailing weather, any foe's attacks made against you have -1 during Accuracy Check and you don't take damage from Hailing weather.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +0, Effect +2)
Powder Snow - Ranged(5ft burst) Ice Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.
Metal Claw - Melee Steel Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.
Swift - Ranged(20ft) Normal Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.

Sandslash have steely, ice-covered spines that ward off most attackers. However, this ice also weighs them down, making them slower. Luckily, these Pokťmon dwell atop mountains covered in snow; while their enemies may be hindered by the weather, Sandslash have adapted claws that can easily clear paths for them to travel through. These claws also allow them to climb up slippery slopes and ice-crusted rock with ease. Sandslash bury themselves in the snow with only their spikes protruded to keep foes away. Their spikes are so cold that being stabbed by them can easily cause frostbite. Their bodies chill the air around them in order to keep these spikes from melting. Sandslash kick up quite a bit of snow when they dash though piles of it, whipping up beautiful flurries.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Caves / Mountains

Evolution: Sandshrew

Ice Stone Sandslash

Proficiencies: Ice / Steel / Prickly (Sandslash Icy Mountain) / Slashing

Sandslash (Icy Mountain)

Ice / Steel - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 14 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Burrow, Freezer
Passives: Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Swords Dance (+2 Attack), Slush Rush (While in Hailing weather, your Speed is +2 and you don't take damage from Hailing weather.), Snow Cloak

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +1, Effect +3)
Icicle Spear - Ranged(10ft) Ice Attack: At-Will 1d4. Icicle Spear has -2 during Accuracy Check. Icicle Spear is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Iron Head - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Blizzard - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Ice Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Blizzard has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Hailing. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the targets are Frozen.

Evolution Shift compatible with Sandshrew family (401)
425

Smoochum / Jynx 

Smoochum

Ice / Psychic - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 2 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 3

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Freezer (can create ice)

Passives: Oblivious (You are immune to Infatuation.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)
Pound - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Lick - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d8. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Sweet Kiss - Melee Fairy Effect: 3/day. Sweet Kiss has -4 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.

Jynx

Ice / Psychic - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 14

Skills: Freezer

Passives: Fake Tears (+2 Special Attack), Dry Skin (In sunny weather, you lose 4 HP at the end of your actions. In rainy weather, you recover 4 HP at the end of your actions. You are immune to Water-type attacks.), Oblivious

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +7, Effect +5)

Lovely Kiss - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. Lovely Kiss has -3 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is put Asleep.

Heart Stamp - Melee Psychic Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Smoochum constantly check their reflections in ice or water to see if they have gotten dirty and will spend copious amounts of time cleaning themselves if they have. However, keeping clean is important to Smoochum because their skin is very sensitive; even mild irritants such as stray dirt can cause them to break out in rashes. Their lips are particularly delicate; they use them as their main method of gathering information about their surroundings. When they come across something foreign, their first instinct is to run up to it and kiss it. This is also how it cleans objects prior to touching them. Smoochum can distinguish and remember thousands of different objects based on their textures and taste from their lips alone. They then categorize these things into what they like and dislike. As they walk, they bob their heads back and forth constantly. They dislike heat and will become cranky and irritable when uncomfortably warm.

Blizzard - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Ice Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Blizzard has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Hailing. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the targets are Frozen.

Biology: Egg Group - Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate - 13 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Caves / Mountains / Tundra

Evolution: Smoochum

Jynx

Proficiencies: Ice / Psychic / Cutesy

426

Jynx are found in secluded, snowy areas. Though rare, they seem to become more common during strong blizzards. As Jynx walk, they sway their hips. Depending on their emotions, they move in slightly different manners. Their strange movements compel those who see them to move with them, dancing in unison. Those moving may not even realize they are swaying their hips until someone else points it out to them. Jynx use their dancing to talk to one another. However, they also have a form of oral speech, which sounds uncannily similar to a human language. Despite their curious behavior, Jynx are kind Pokťmon. As they walk and sway, people and Pokťmon alike subconsciously follow them. During blizzards, they will often lead these hypnotized beings to safety away from the cold. Then, they disappear almost as quickly as they appeared. When Jynx walk, they mysteriously leave no footprints in the snow.

Snom live in snowy areas, most commonly found buried in snow piles at the bases of trees. They are weak Pokťmon that try to blend into icy terrain in order to avoid predation. Snom feed entirely on snow, using it to create the icicles that grow on their backs. These growths also help Snom mimic icicles when they hang themselves from tree branches to rest. The more snow a Snom eats, the larger these spikes grow. Snom adhere themselves to branches using a special, frigid silk that radiates cold air. They can also spit this substance onto attackers to both tangle them up and slow their movements. Scientists are researching this silk for potential usage in arctic exploration equipment. When Snom eat a significant amount of snow, their spikes will grow so large that they will have a hard time moving. This is a sign that they are ready to evolve.

427

Snom / Frosmoth 

Snom

Ice / Bug - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 18 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 3

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Freezer (can create ice)

Passives: Shield Dust (You are unaffected by additional effects from attacks that deal damage.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)

Splash - Melee Normal Effect: At-Will. Instead of making an Accuracy Check, roll 1d20. On 18 or higher, all adjacent foes are moved 5 ft away from the user.

Powder Snow - Ranged(5ft burst) Ice Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.

Struggle Bug - Ranged(5ft burst) Bug Special Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Frosmoth

Ice / Bug - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 14

Skills: Flight (can fly), Freezer, Guster (can produce wind)

Passives: Feather Dance (+2 Defense), Quiver Dance (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense, +1 Speed), Tailwind (+2 Speed), Ice Scales (If hit by a Special Attack, you only take half the damage you would take.), Shield Dust

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +7, Effect +5)
Icy Wind - Ranged(10ft) Ice Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Frosmoth are elusive creatures that only inhabit the snowiest forest mountain peaks. As they fly, they scatter icy particles from their wings that freeze moisture in the air to create snow. Frosmoth are protectors of snowy areas, descending upon those who defile the environment in such places and whipping up powerful blizzards. Once a year, as winter ends, Frosmoth will migrate north towards arctic areas to escape the incoming heat. The land beneath them gets blanketed in a light dusting of snow thanks to their flapping wings. The reverse occurs at the start of the cold season when they return. These events herald the end and the beginning of the winter months respectively in many regions.

Biology: Egg Group - Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Glacievore / Herbivore, Habitat - Forests / Mountains / Tundra

Evolution: Snom

Frosmoth

Bug Buzz - Ranged(20ft) Bug Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On Proficiencies: Bug / Ice / Lepidopteran (Frosmoth)

hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

/ Winged (Frosmoth)

Blizzard - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Ice Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Blizzard has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Hailing. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the targets are Frozen.

428

Vulpix / Ninetales (Icy Mountain) 

Vulpix (Icy Mountain)

Ice - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Freezer (can create ice)

Passives: Baby-Doll Eyes (+1 Defense), Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Snow Cloak (While in Hailing weather, any foe's attacks made against you have -1 during Accuracy Check and you don't take damage from Hailing weather.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)

Powder Snow - Ranged(5ft burst) Ice Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.

Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.

Scientists believe that in snowy mountains, albino Vulpix never developed pigments because their whiteness helped them avoid detection. These Pokťmon live in packs of two to five individuals known as a "skulk" atop snowy peaks, helping each other find food and shelter in their barren environments. Each skulk is led by a Ninetales, which, though not always visible, is almost always nearby and ready to defend the group. Their breaths can reach very low temperatures, freezing prey solid. When in warmer areas, Vulpix will spray shards of ice from their tails to cool themselves off; tiny flecks of ice can be seen springing from strands of their fur when observed under a microscope.
Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Mountains

Confuse Ray - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target becomes Confused.

Ninetales (Icy Mountain)

Ice / Fairy - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 42 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Freezer

Passives: Baby-Doll Eyes, Tail Whip, Snow Cloak, Snow Warning (As a free action you may deplete one use of Hail and use Hail.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +5)

Evolution: Vulpix

Ice Stone Ninetales

Proficiencies: Fairy (Ninetales) / Ice / Psychic / Weird

Dazzling Gleam - Ranged(15ft, 10ft wave) Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 3d8.
Ice Beam - Ranged(20ft beam) Ice Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.

Safeguard - Ranged(10ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Put a Safe Coat on all allies and yourself. The Coat has the following ability: You cannot become afflicted. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

Evolution Shift compatible with Vulpix family (293)
429

Ninetales were once revered as mystical spirits. Ninetales were said to be calm spirits serving as emissaries between the heavenly deities and the earthly people, and people were forbidden from trespassing into their lands. They were both admired and feared; though they were said to help rescue people stranded in the mountains, they were also believed to freeze intruders trespassing on their land or those harming nature solid. Ninetales can produce droplets of ice in their fur. They can manipulate this ice to create solid walls to block attacks or coalesce them into larger balls to attack with. They can fire this ice at opponents like bullets with enough force to shatter some rock. Ninetales can also release tiny ice droplets from their fur all at once to create beautiful shimmers; they will usually be sighted in mists or blizzards for this reason.
430

431

Bergmite / Avalugg 
/ Avalugg (Mountainous)

Bergmite

Ice - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Chilled (always cold), Freezer (can create ice), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Harden (+1 Defense), Sharpen (+1 Attack), Own Tempo (You are immune to being Confused.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +1, Effect +1)

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Icy Wind - Ranged(10ft) Ice Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Avalugg

Ice - Huge (Size), Superweight (Weight) Hit Points: 60 Defense: 19 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Chilled, Freezer, Swimmer

Passives: Harden, Sharpen, Ice Body (If in Hailing weather, you recover 4 HP after you act and you don't take damage from Hailing weather.), Own Tempo, Sturdy (If you would be brought from Max HP to 0 or below, you are instead brought to 1 HP.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)

Body Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed. Body Slam can Paralyze Electric-types.

Bergmite live in large herds on top of freezing glaciers and within the crags of icy mountains. They spend much of their time living on top of parent Avalugg, huddling upon their flat backs. They will freeze their feet into place to keep from sliding about. Bergmite greatly dislike temperatures above freezing and never venture anywhere not covered in snow or ice; their bodies cannot withstand heat for extended periods of time. This is why they often cluster on top of their parents, as the bodies of Avalugg radiate freezing air that keep their children comfortable. To defend themselves, Bergmite expel chilling air of temperatures. They cover their bodies with sharp spikes of ice by freezing moisture in the air to shield themselves from attacks. Bergmite never allow their true bodies to show through the ice covering them. They chill the air around them in order to fix cracks in this ice. When faced with particularly strong threats, Bergmite will wedge themselves into the crevasses of their parent Avalugg, only exposing their icy spikes to potential danger.

Avalanche - Melee Ice Attack: 3/day 3d8. If you were attacked by the target this round, use 3d12 for damage instead.

Recover - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP.

432

Wild Avalugg are often seen with herds of Bergmite, their offspring, huddled on their backs. The true bodies of Avalugg are coated in thick layers of ice; this ice is as hard as steel and resistant to melting. They radiate chilling air from their bodies, encouraging Bergmite to stay on their freezing backs rather than venture out into their warmer surroundings. Their heavy, hard bodies can crush most objects with ease. However, they are also rather cumbersome and slow, and experiencing great difficulty when attempting to pass through narrow areas. Despite their weight, Avalugg have bodies that are less dense than water, enabling them to float like rafts when submerged. They will carry their offspring from glacier to glacier in this manner. When Avalugg are threatened, the Bergmite on their backs will lodge themselves into their crevasses, covering them in sharp and icy spikes. With their backsides protected, Avalugg will then try to crush foes with their weight. Avalugg are diurnal Pokťmon; their crevasses can be observed widening in the morning sun as they go about their day before rebuilding as they rest for the night.

Avalugg (Mountainous)
Ice / Rock - Huge (Size), Superweight (Weight) Hit Points: 60 Defense: 20 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 14

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Chilled, Freezer, Sinker (can't swim)

Passives: Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Sharpen, Ice Body, Own Tempo, Sturdy

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)

Body Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed. Body Slam can Paralyze Electric-types.

Rock Slide - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Rock Attack: 1/day

5d12. Rock Slide has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if

The Avalugg on mountains are adapted entirely to

you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is

terrestrial life compared to their amphibious relatives.

Stunned.

Scientists believe this change may have arisen due to the steep terrain of the region, granting Avalugg that could navigate hills and mountains access to more abundant resources. In fact, these Avalugg actively avoid the sea;

Mountain Gale - Ranged(30ft) Ice Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

being part Rock-type, they consume minerals in addition to

ice in order to sustain their bodies. These Pokťmon use their sturdy tusks to plow through snow drifts as they make Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10

their way down slopes. Tougher than steel, these rocky

Days, Diet - Glacievore / Terravore, Habitat - Glaciers /

growths sprout from their lower jaws and are covered in Mountains / Polar

reinforced ice. They shatter boulders and icefalls obstructing their paths with ease. Avalugg take advantage of mountain shade in order to keep away from the sun. If

Evolution: Bergmite

Avalugg,

From Mountainous habitat Mountainous Avalugg

they stay in direct sunlight for too long, their rocky bodies Proficiencies: Ice / Rock (Avalugg (Mountainous))

will begin to retain heat and melt their icy exteriors. For this

/ Fang (Avalugg / Avalugg (Mountainous))

reason, they will often move around mountains over the

/ Stampeding (Avalugg / Avalugg (Mountainous))

course of the day, following the shade.

433

Snorunt / Glalie 
/ Froslass

Snorunt

Ice - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Chilled (always cold), Freezer (can create ice)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Inner Focus (You are immune to being Stunned.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Powder Snow - Ranged(5ft burst) Ice Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.
Ice Shard - Ranged(15ft) Ice Attack: At-Will 2d6. Ice Shard has Priority.
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Glalie

Ice - Medium (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Chilled, Freezer, Hover (can hover)

Passives: Leer, Ice Body (If in Hailing weather, you recover 4 HP after you act and you don't take damage from Hailing weather.), Inner Focus

Snorunt dwell in icy caverns, blending in with surrounding stalagmites and stalactites. They only venture out when there is snow, spending most of the spring and summer inside caves. They regulate their body heat by shivering, helping them cope with such cold environments. Their diets consist entirely of snow and ice, which they happily munch on while wandering through snow-covered areas. In the fall, Snorunt can occasionally be seen hiding together under piles of fallen leaves. Snorunt are rarely found outside of snowy areas; if they wander too far from ice, they may panic and desperately seek snowfall.

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +4)
Ice Fang - Melee Ice Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is randomly either Stunned or Frozen.
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Freeze-Dry - Ranged(10ft) Ice Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. Freeze-Dry is Super effective against Water types. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 434

Glalie have bodies of rock, though it isn't particularly hard for stone. To remedy this, they absorb moisture from the air and cover themselves in icy armor that is tempered so that it won't melt, even when exposed directly to fire. When threatened, they can bolster their armor by freezing more water from the atmosphere. This ability also has a myriad of other uses. When hunting, for example, Glalie will sneak up on prey and freeze the air around them, entrapping them in blocks of ice. Once their victims are frozen, Glalie then enjoy eating them leisurely. They can manipulate and freeze moisture in the air into nearly any shape they desire. Their bodies are constantly shrouded in shimmering mists of diamond-like ice crystals. As Glalie travel, they leave trails of these crystals behind in the air, which sparkle beautifully in the sunlight. Glalie also leave lines of frost behind them as they float around, coating the ground, trees, or whatever else is nearby in a thin layer of ice.

Froslass

Ice / Ghost - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Chilled, Freezer, Hover

Passives: Leer, Cursed Body (When you are hit by a foe's melee attack, disable that attack for 10 mins. Cursed Body can only affect one attack at a time.), Snow Cloak (While in Hailing weather, any foe's attacks made against you have -1 during Accuracy Check and you don't take damage from Hailing weather.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +5)

Froslass are mysterious Pokťmon, found in deep, remote areas constantly cloaked in snowstorms. Because of their habitats, Froslass are rarely ever encountered by humans. Their bodies are completely hollow and they move around by floating. They use their frigid breath, to freeze unsuspecting prey solid. They have a macabre habit of displaying their frozen victims in hidden areas. These displays are generally not where Froslass nest. In mountain villages, children are sometimes warned that Froslass will come down to visit human villages during blizzards; hearing knocking on the door during a snowstorm is a sign that a Froslass has come to visit.

Ominous Wind - Ranged(10ft) Ghost Special Attack: 1/day 2d8. On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour.
Will-O-Wisp - Ranged(10ft) Fire Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Burned.
Blizzard - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Ice Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Blizzard has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Hailing. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the targets are Frozen.

Biology: Egg Group - Fairy / Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Glacievore / Omnivore, Habitat - Caves / Mountain / Tundra

Evolution: Snorunt

Glalie,

Dawn Stone Froslass

Proficiencies: Ice / Ghost (Froslass) / Fangs (Glalie)

435

Cryogonal 

Ice - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight) Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 14

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Chilled (always cold), Flight (can fly), Freezer (can create ice)

Passives: Acid Armor (+2 Defense), Sharpen (+1 Attack), Levitate (You are immune to Ground-type moves while you are airborne.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)
Ice Beam - Ranged(20ft beam) Ice Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.
Confuse Ray - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target becomes Confused.
Freeze-Dry - Ranged(10ft) Ice Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. Freeze-Dry is Super effective against Water types. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.

Cryogonal are made nearly entirely of ice crystals. Unlike normal ice, however, their bodies undergo sublimation from gas to solid and deposition from solid to gas, completely skipping a liquid form in either direction. They cannot always control this transformation, sometimes left to the will of the weather being warm or cold. Because of this, they can seemingly appear from thin air in cold weather; many of them suddenly appear alongside snow as the air temperature drops. Cryogonal hunt by ensnaring Ice -type prey in chains of ice released from their mouths, freezing them in seconds. They then pull their victims back in to consume them.

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Glacievore, Habitat - Mountains / Tundra
Proficiencies: Ice / Prickly

Delibird make their nests inside mountain crags and atop sheer cliffs. Delibird are very kind to strangers; if they come across lost Pokťmon or trainers, they won't hesitate to share some of their food with them. Many hikers in neardeath situations can recount being saved by generous Delibird. Delibird are also curious Pokťmon; besides food, they also collect pretty, strange, and sometimes even dangerous objects within their tails. They will gladly share their loot with others--for example, giving lost hikers compasses to help them find their way. Because they give away so much, though, they are constantly waddling about in search of more food. As Delibird are omnivorous, however, their definition of food when gifting can sometimes include deceased Bug-types or other unusual foodstuffs. When threatened, Delibird defend themselves by chucking the contents of their tails at attackers. In a flock, the Delibird with the largest tail is the leader.

436

Delibird 

Ice / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Flight (can fly), Freezer (can create ice)

Passives: Hustle (Your attacks against foes have -2 Accuracy. After the first time you miss an attack during an encounter, the -2 Accuracy penalty is removed and you gain +4 Attack until the end of the encounter.)Vital Spirit (You are immune to being put to Sleep.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)
Present - Ranged(10ft) Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, you may choose to deal damage with Present or heal the target's HP equal to the amount of damage Present would have dealt.
Pound - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Drill Peck - Melee Flying Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Mountains / Tundra
Proficiencies: Flying / Ice / Avian / Winged

Eiscue 

Ice - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight) Ice Face Form

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 7

No Ice Form

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 13 (65 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Chilled (always cold), Freezer (can create ice), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Amnesia (+2 Special Defense), Ice Face (The first time Eiscue is hit with a melee attack each encounter; the attack is negated and you change to No Ice Face Form. Ice Face is reset whenever it starts Hailing while you are within its area of effect.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +2/+6)
Powder Snow - Ranged(5ft burst) Ice Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.
Headbutt - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Blizzard - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Ice Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Blizzard has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Hailing. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the targets are Frozen.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Polar
Proficiencies: Ice / Water / Avian / Winged
The most striking features that most people first notice about Eiscue is their cube-shaped heads. These are solid blocks of ice encasing their real heads, which are considerably smaller. Because ice is less dense than water, Eiscue can in fact float on ocean currents like buoys in order to travel from floe to floe with little effort. Eiscue catch prey by dangling their singular hairs into the water like lures to attract some Water-types. The hairs are directly connected to their brains by a single nerve, making them quite sensitive. These hairs also radiate cold to freeze the immediate surrounding water. This is how Eiscue reform their ice blocks when they are shattered by attackers. The real heads of Eiscue are quite heat-sensitive, so the ice blocks help them keep cool in more temperate regions. Eiscue are carefree Pokťmon that will take hardships in stride; as long as they have their ice, they are willing to face just about anything.
437

Happiny / Chansey / Blissey 

Happiny

Normal - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 2 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 1

Special Attack: 2

Skills: Telepath (can read emotions)

Passives: Defense Curl (+1 Defense), Natural Cure (Whenever returned to a Poke Ball, you are cured of any afflictions.), Too Pure (All attacks made against you that would deal damage on hit roll +1 die when rolling damage.)

Moves (Attack +0, Special Attack +1, Effect +1)
Pound - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Refresh - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. Target an ally or yourself. Target is cured of all afflictions.
Sweet Kiss - Melee Fairy Effect: 3/day. Sweet Kiss has -4 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.

Chansey

Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 150 Defense: 2 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 2

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Telepath

Passives: Defense Curl, Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Friend Guard (Allies within 25ft of you take -1d4 damage when attacked.), Natural Cure, Too Pure

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Double Slap - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Double Slap has -2 during Accuracy Check. Double Slap is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Soft Boiled - Melee Normal Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or yourself. The target is healed HP equal to half of the target's Max HP.
Egg Bomb - Ranged(15ft) Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Egg Bomb has -2 during Accuracy Check.

Happiny have stretchy, rubber-like belly pouches that can hold various objects within them, such as spare food. They are most commonly found, however, with white, smooth, oval-shaped rocks in their pouches; they love round, white objects in general, and will carry them around in their pouches in imitation of their evolutions. The more the stones resemble eggs, the more valuable they are to them. Taking a stone from a Happiny will upset it greatly and cause it to throw a tantrum, however--even if the weight of the stone is preventing it from walking properly. Happiny are very conscious about the curls of hair on their heads and will visit bodies of water to clean and adjust them as needed. Despite their sizes, Happiny are deceptively strong, capable of lifting heavy objects much larger than themselves. They have a quirky tendency to wander right between the feet of larger people and Pokťmon, causing them to stumble. When Happiny make new friends, they will give them their stones as signs of trust; refusing the stones will greatly anger them, as doing so is a sign of disrespect to Happiny.

438

Chansey are rare Pokťmon whose eggs are greatly sought after, both because they have medicinal properties as well as because they are delicious. Chansey lay these false eggs every day and always carry one in their pouches. If they come across injured Pokťmon or people, they will share their eggs with them and nurse them back to health. Because of their amazing abilities to heal Pokťmon, it is most common to see Chansey working in Pokťmon Centers. Chansey treated with affection are said to lay more nutritious and tasty eggs. Their eggs are believed to bring happiness to consumers and restore the appetites of those who lost them in sickness. Though very kind and generous, Chansey will refuse to share their eggs with those with pure malice in their hearts. They are forgiving, however, and will gladly share with those who prove that they have changed their ways. Catching these elusive Pokťmon is said to grant eternal happiness. Chansey normally walk slowly to protect their eggs, but can dash surprisingly quickly when spooked. True eggs that will hatch into Happiny look very distinct from their false eggs and are never confused for each other.

Blissey
Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 156 Defense: 2 Special Defense: 14

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 2

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Telepath

Passives: Defense Curl, Tail Whip, Friend Guard, Healer (After acting, you may roll 1d20. On 16 or higher, any adjacent allies are cured of all afflictions.), Natural Cure, Too Pure

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)

Sing - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Sing has -8 during Accuracy Check. On hit, all targets fall Asleep.

Double Edge - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

Blissey are some of the most compassionate Pokťmon Healing Wish - Melee Psychic Effect: 1/day. Your HP is set in the world. Their fur twitches when they sense beings that to 0, then target ally is healed to Max HP and cured of any are sad or ill, and they immediately try to make them feel afflictions.

better. Blissey will often share their false eggs with com-

plete strangers who happen to be down on their luck. A single bite of their eggs, which have enough vitamins and

Biology: Egg Group - Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 20 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Forests

minerals to feed a person for a whole day, can immediately

lift spirits and ease illnesses. Consuming whole eggs will Evolution: Happiny

Chansey

Blissey

compel people or Pokťmon to act just as kindly as Blissey to others until the nutrients from the eggs pass through their systems. Because of their compassionate natures, Blissey are often found working in Pokťmon Centers along-

Proficiencies: Psychic / Elemental Attack (Chansey / Blissey) / Healer / Normal Block

side their pre-evolutions Chansey; they are more common-

ly found in Centers than in the wild, where they are exceed-

ingly rare. Blissey will work tirelessly to heal the sick and

weary, not being able to rest until their patients are at the

very least in stable conditions. Like Chansey, false eggs are

distinct from the eggs they lay that hatch into Happiny.

439

Igglybuff / Jigglypuff / Wigglytuff 

Igglybuff
J Normal / Fairy - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 3 Special Defense: 2

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 3

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Hover (can hover), Inflatable (can expand)

Passives: Defense Curl (+1 Defense), Cute Charm (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Infatuate the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)

Sing - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Sing has -8 during Accuracy Check. On hit, all targets fall Asleep.

Pound - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Sweet Kiss - Melee Fairy Effect: 3/day. Sweet Kiss has -4 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.

Jigglypuff

Normal / Fairy - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 72 Defense: 3 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Inflatable

Passives: Defense Curl, Competitive (If a foe lowers any of your stats, you have +2 Special Attack until your lowered stats are returned to normal.), Cute Charm

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)
Disarming Voice - Ranged(10ft) Fairy Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.
Double Slap - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Double Slap has -2 during Accuracy Check. Double Slap is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Rollout - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Rollout against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Rollout's damage.

Igglybuff have very elastic, rubbery bodies. Their flexibility allows them to take a lot of wear and tear. This property is important, as Igglybuff will often end up in situations that would severely injure most Pokťmon. Being rather clumsy, they often trip and fall, rolling down hills and bouncing uncontrollably like balls. Once they begin tumbling, they will not stop until blocked by an obstacle. Luckily, their stretchy bodies protect them from harm during these rolls. Igglybuff love to practice their singing, aspiring to reach the levels of talent of their evolutions. However, due to their underdeveloped vocal cords, they quickly develop sore throats after just a few songs. These Pokťmon then will search for water to gargle in order to soothe their voices. These Pokťmon practice diligently and sometimes will not stop until something intervenes; it is said that they even dream of singing in their sleep. Igglybuff sweat a scent similar to that of marshmallows. Researchers are not quite sure why they possess this property; while the smell was once believed to calm foes, studies have shown that it only makes Igglybuff appear more appetizing.

440

Jigglypuff are most well-known for their ability to sing people and Pokťmon alike to sleep. They sing at a wavelength that matches the brainwaves of a person in deep sleep, causing all who hear them to become drowsy. They have a vocal range of over twelve octaves, though they rarely exercise it in full. In battle, Jigglypuff enrapture foes with their huge eyes before singing them to sleep; they then use melee strikes to assault them. They can also inflate their bodies. In addition to allowing them to easily float upon the winds, this ability also increases the air capacity of their lungs and allows them to sing for longer periods of time, letting them lull foes into even deeper slumbers. Recently, it was discovered that different populations of Jigglypuff utilize different methods of singing, ranging from lilting melodies to near-shouts.

Wigglytuff

Normal / Fairy - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 84 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Inflatable

Passives: Defense Curl, Competitive, Cute Charm, Friend Guard (Allies within 25ft of you take -1d4 damage when attacked.)

Wigglytuff can inflate their rubbery bodies like balloons. They grow steadily to huge sizes to scare off foes; the largest purportedly could grow to twenty times its resting size. In the wild, they compete with one another to see who can become the largest. Their large eyes are always covered with a thin layer of tears that wash away any particles that fall onto their delicate surfaces. Wigglytuff fur is also unimaginably soft. Sleeping next to a one is said to be an amazing experience. Wigglytuff shed their fur each season and people can gather this fur to weave into yarn.

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +2)
Wake-Up Slap - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. If WakeUp Slap is used against a Sleeping target, Wake-Up Slap deals 5d8 for damage instead, then cures the target of Sleep. If you choose not to roll damage while using WakeUp Slap, you do not need to roll an Accuracy Check.
Double Edge - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.
Hyper Voice - Ranged(30ft beam) Normal Special Attack: 1/ day 3d12.

Biology: Egg Group - Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 4 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Meadows / Mountains

Evolution: Igglybuff

Jigglypuff

Moon Stone Wigglytuff

Proficiencies: Fairy / Cutesy / Elemental Attack / Normal Block

441

Lillipup / Herdier / Stoutland 

Lillipup

Normal - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Tracker (can follow scents)

Passives: Baby-Doll Eyes (+1 Defense), Leer (+1 Attack), Vital Spirit (You are immune to being put to Sleep.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +1, Effect +3)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Take Down - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.

Herdier

Normal - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Tracker

Passives: Intimidate (+1 Defense), Leer, Work Up (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Sand Rush (While in Sandstorming Weather, your Speed is +2 and you don't take damage from Sandstorming weather.), Vital Spirit

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)

Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Retaliate - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 1d12. If the target knocked out an ally during this round, Retaliate has 5d12 for damage instead.
Reversal - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 1d10. If you are at less than half of your Max HP, Reversal has 1d20 for damage instead. If you are at less than 5 HP, Reversal has 5d12 for damage instead.

Lillipup are known for their bravery, loyalty, intelligence, and adorableness. Lillipup use their long facial hairs to detect subtle changes in air currents and help them detect approaching foes. These Pokťmon will fearlessly stand their ground when confronted. However, they quickly assess situations to determine risk and are smart enough to back down from foes that are too strong. Lillipup are very loyal and are quick to defend their trainers and allies. Though their senses of smell are above average, they rely more on their fur to learn about their environments. In wet weather, their fur becomes matted and begins to clump, severely hindering their abilities to analyze their surroundings.

442

In the past, Herdier aided hunters in pursuing prey, cutting off fleeing game and helping drag carcasses back to villages. They are extremely loyal Pokťmon, perhaps even to a fault; Herdier will always obey their trainers' commands, even if doing so would put them in danger. They are very wary of strangers, however. Today, Herdier remain common sights in both rural and urban areas. On farms, they help herd and defend livestock, while in cities, they are often kept as pets and hailed for their loyalty. The dark cape-like fur on their backs is tough and hard; Herdier will shelter smaller Pokťmon under these capes to protect them from harm. This fur gets both longer and harder as Herdier grow older.

Stoutland

Normal - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Tracker

Passives: Intimidate, Leer, Work Up, Sand Rush, Scrappy (Your Normal-type and Fighting-type attacks can hit Ghosttype targets.), Vital Spirit

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Stoutland have been closely connected with humans for quite some time. They are often associated with mountain Superpower - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, villages, where they are most often found. Their shaggy fur your Attack and Defense is -2 for 10 mins.

is excellent at retaining heat, allowing them to travel across snow and ice with ease; they are also adapted to cross rugged, rocky terrain. They are very wise and compassionate; Stoutland are often employed as hiking guides for moun-

Giga Impact - Melee(10ft burst) Normal Attack: 1/day 5d20. Giga Impact has a recharge turn and -2 during Accuracy Check.

tain travelers thanks to their resistance to the cold and

Play Rough - Melee Fairy Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the

affinity for people. They are also known to lead rescue mis- target's Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

sions during blizzards to find stranded hikers. When they

find lost travelers, they will wrap their long fur around

them keep them warm. Their fur is so efficient at retaining

heat that it is said a person stranded overnight in the snow Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet -

during the dead of winter would be perfectly fine as long as Omnivore, Habitat - Fields / Mountains

he or she was wrapped tightly in it.

Evolution: Lillipup

Herdier

Stoutland

Proficiencies: Elemental Attack E / Fangs / Normal Block

443

Pidgey / Pidgeotto / Pidgeot 

Pidgey

Normal / Flying - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Flight (can fly), Guster (can produce wind)

Passives: Keen Eye (Your accuracy checks cannot be negatively affected by foes.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Gust - Ranged(20ft) Flying Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. If the target is at least 20 ft off the ground airborne, Gust deals +1d20 damage.
Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.
Sand Attack - Ranged(10ft) Ground Effect: At-Will. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.

Pidgeotto

Normal / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Flight, Guster

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Feather Dance (+2 Defense), Keen Eye, Tangled Feet (While you are confused, any foe's attacks made against you have -1 during accuracy check.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)
Twister - Ranged(15ft) Dragon Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Wing Attack - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d8.
Roost - Self Flying Effect: 1/day. You must be on the ground to use Roost. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP. You lose Flying-type until your next turn.

Pidgey are usually docile Pokťmon that prefer to avoid confrontation with other Pokťmon and humans altogether, hiding in tall grass to prevent themselves from being seen. If cornered, though, they will attempt to escape by kicking up sand to blind foes and buy themselves time to fly away. When hunting, however, Pidgey often use these attacks to stir up their surroundings, exposing vulnerable Bug-types for them to chase down. These Pokťmon have extremely keen senses of direction. They can always find their way back to their nests regardless of how far they have flown. Because of this, Pidgey were commonly used to send messages, at least until the advent of e-mail. Many Pidgey have grown accustomed to and now dwell in urban areas due to this practice, flying to forests and fields only to hunt for food before returning back to their nests in cities.

444

Pidgeotto do not shy away from confrontation. They are fiercely territorial, patrolling the skies above their domains by flying slowly in circular patterns and watching for both intruders as well as prey. Pidgeotto have outstanding vision, and are able to locate prey over a mile below. When they spot something, such as a Caterpie for example, they will dive down and attack with their sharp talons and powerful beaks. Like Pidgey, they have keen sense of direction in addition to their strength; Pidgeotto can carry prey back to their nests with ease, and can travel over 60 miles in the process. Due to their extremely territorial natures, most urban Pidgey nearing evolution migrate, often in flocks, to the nearby forests where they hunt; they then split up and stake out their own territories. This phenomenon is notably only present in metropolitan Pidgey as Pidgey in less densely-populated, rural areas often will stay where they are upon evolution.

Pidgeot

Normal / Flying - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Flight, Guster

Passives: Agility, Feather Dance, Big Pecks (Your Defense cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.), Keen Eye, Tangled Feet

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +6)

Mirror Move - Ranged(30ft) Flying Effect: 1/day. You per-

form the same attack that was just used against you, even

if it missed.

Pidgeot are less docile than their first stages, but not as hostile as their second. While still territorial, they no longer attack others for simply entering their turfs; rather, they wait and use their keen eyesight to watch from far away,

Air Slash - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. Air Slash has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

seeing whether their intruders have ill intentions. If they are not endangering the Pokťmon or their offspring, they will leave them be. However, they will defeat potential threats without hesitation using their powerful chest muscles to whip up windstorms strong enough to bend tall

Hurricane - Ranged(25ft, 10ft blast) Flying Special Attack: 1/ day 5d12. Hurricane has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Raining. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the targets are Confused.

trees. While hunting, they dive down to lake surfaces to

snatch splashing Water-types with their sharp talons, reaching incredible speeds. When approached, Pidgeot will spread out their wings to intimidate foes. If the tactic fails,

Biology: Egg Group - Flying, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Fields / Forests / Grasslands / Urban

they will quickly resort to flapping their wings to create

Evolution: Pidgey

Pidgeotto

Pidgeot

powerful gusts before attacking with their talons. The beautiful, glossy feathers on their heads are symbols of speed in Proficiencies: Flying / Avian / Winged

popular culture.

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 445

Pidove / Tranquill / Unfezant 

Pidove

Normal / Flying - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Flight (can fly), Guster (can produce wind)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Leer (+1 Attack), Big Pecks (Your Defense cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)

Gust - Ranged(20ft) Flying Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. If the target is at least 20 ft off the ground airborne, Gust deals +1d20 damage.

Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.

Air Cutter - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. Air Cutter has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Air Cutter is a critical hit.

Tranquill

Normal / Flying - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Flight, Guster

Passives: Growl, Leer, Super Luck (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Big Pecks

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)

Roost - Self Flying Effect: 1/day. You must be on the ground to use Roost. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP. You lose Flying-type until your next turn.

Pidove are absurdly common Pokťmon in most urban areas, found in or on nearly every park or building in large cities. They are often found in large, cooing flocks perched on telephone wires or tree branches. Pidove are used to the presence of humans, not even flinching when approached by people. In many areas, they have even become accustomed to being fed breadcrumbs by passersby. Pidove has been known to fly off to fetch items only to return less than a minute later empty-handed, having forgotten what they were searching for. In spite of their forgetfulness, Pidove have the uncanny ability to always find their way back to their nests, no matter how far or long they have flown. It is believed that these Pokťmon can excellently retain visual details, allowing them to navigate home unerringly despite not being able to remember anything else for extended periods of time.

Taunt - Ranged(20ft) Dark Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target may only use attacks that target you or your allies for 1 min.

Air Slash - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. Air Slash has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

446

Tranquill prefer to dwell in solitary, quiet areas away from others. They are docile Pokťmon that tend to keep to themselves; however, they known to attack viciously when bothered. Tranquill normally are found deep in forests, though some make their homes in secluded sections of city parks and gardens. Tranquill rarely make much sound at all. Even when trained, Tranquill prefer solitude over company. If given the chance, they will spend most of their time alone in quiet places. However, they are fiercely loyal to anything they do bond to; they are always able to find their way back to them even if they have travelled considerably far since the last times they were together. Tranquill are better at walking than most other avian Pokťmon, and are capable of sprinting across flat terrain for short distances. They can still fly, however, though they must land to rest periodically while doing so.

Unfezant

Normal / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Flight, Guster

Passives: Feather Dance (+2 Defense), Leer, Super Luck, Big Pecks

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Swagger - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the

target is Confused and the target's Attack is +4 until they

Unfezant sport one of the more striking examples of

are no longer Confused.

dimorphism in the Pokťmon world. While female Unfezant are drably colored in black, gray, and brown, males are adorned with bright pink masks and vivid green splotches on their undersides. During mating season, females tend to choose mates with the brightest-colored masks and the longest tassels; consequently, male Unfezant will fight viciously to become the most desirable, tearing off parts of their opponents' tassels or sullying their masks with dirt and debris. These adornments are cumbersome for flight,

Facade - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 3d8. If you have an affliction, use 5d12 as damage instead.
Sky Attack - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 5d12. Sky Attack is a two-turn move. On the first turn, fly up to 40 ft straight up. On the second turn, fly up to three times your movement speed, then you can roll Sky Attack's Accuracy Check and damage. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

so females tend to be better long-distance fliers than

males. Stronger wings allow males to fly faster over short distances, however. Unfezant are skilled at running, perhaps even more so than flying. Unfezant are fiercely loyal

Biology: Egg Group - Flying, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Fields / Forests / Grasslands / Urban

to their allies, refusing to become close with anyone new unless given permission by its allies.

Evolution: Pidove

Tranquill

Unfezant

Proficiencies: Flying / Avian / Winged

447

Pikipek / Trumbeak / Toucannon 

Pikipek

Normal / Flying - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Keen Eye (Your accuracy checks cannot be negatively affected by foes.)
Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +1, Effect +3)
Peck - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Echoed Voice - Ranged(10ft) Normal Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. Echoed Voice deals +5 damage if you used it during the previous round.
Rock Smash - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Trumbeak

Normal / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Flight

Passives: Growl, Keen Eye, Skill Link (Your scatter moves have +2 during Accuracy Check.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)

Pikipek use their beaks to bore holes in the sides of trees and store seeds. They can strike sixteen times in a single second. Despite their small stature, Pikipek in fact have incredibly strong neck muscles that enable them to peck with such strength. Their drilling is very noisy; they use different rhythms of pecking in order to communicate with one another. Since their signals are loud and distinct from one another, people that live near them often learn to recognize what different rhythms mean. Pikipek also have a fondness of shiny objects, storing them in tree holes.

Supersonic - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. Supersonic has -8 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.

Roost - Self Flying Effect: 1/day. You must be on the ground to use Roost. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP. You lose Flying-type until your next turn.

Bullet Seed - Ranged(10ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 1d4. Bullet Seed has -2 during Accuracy Check. Bullet Seed is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

448

Trumbeak can be absolute headaches. They are infamous for their loud, bugle-like calls as well as their lack of regard for quiet. The tips of their beaks are flexible and can bend backwards like "lips." This allows them to buzz air through them in order to create their signature trumpeting. Though Trumbeak do not live together in the wild, they are not territorial towards others of their kind. In fact, they communicate with one another through their raucous calling. Over a hundred distinct Trumbeak cries have been recorded. When Trumbeak eat Berries, they store the seeds which they cannot digest within their long beaks. They can then fire all of the seeds at once in bursts to pummel enemies. This also makes them effective at dispersing the seeds of wild plants, spreading them far from their producers. Plants in Trumbeak habitats often have hard-shelled seeds that can withstand firing, and Trumbeak prefer these seeds because they are more effective at deterring attackers.

Toucannon

Normal / Flying - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Flight

Passives: Feather Dance (+2 Defense), Keen Eye, Sheer Force (Your attacks that have additional effects that affect the target may deal +4 damage, but will not have those additional effects.), Skill Link
Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)

Drill Peck - Melee Flying Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Toucannon prefer to remain alone and undisturbed. They will only leave their nests to gather seeds or to find mates. Toucannon create and store volatile gases within their beaks. When endangered, they can heat their beaks in order to ignite this gas and fire seed blasts with great force. As their beaks heat up, their segmented bands all gradually

Beak Blast - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 5d12. Beak Blast is a two-turn move. On the first turn: any character who hits you with a melee move until your next turn is Burned. On the second turn, move up to twice your movement speed, then you may roll Beak Blast's Accuracy Check and damage.

begin to turn red; when fully heated, they can cause severe Hyper Voice - Ranged(30ft beam) Normal Special Attack: 1/

burns upon contact and launch seeds with enough power day 3d12.

to shatter stone. Toucannon can also heat their beaks to a

lesser degree in order to keep their eggs warm. The only

company that Toucannon enjoy is that of their offspring and their mates; their children will often bring back fruits and Berries to their parents' nests, the seeds of which Toucannon can then use to power their attacks. Humorously

Biology: Egg Group - Flying, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Jungles

Evolution: Pikipek

Trumbeak

Toucannon

enough, the raucous trumpeting of younger Trumbeak seems to irritate Toucannon just as much as it does other Pokťmon and people. Instead, Toucannon prefer to com-

Proficiencies: Flying / Avian / Elemental Attack F (Toucannon) / Sound / Winged

municate by smacking beaks with one another, varying the

strength and number of hits to send different messages.

449

Porygon / Porygon 2 / Porygon-Z 

Porygon

Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Flight (can fly), Wired (can go into electronics)

Passives: Sharpen (+1 Attack), Download (Your Attack is +1 against targets with lower Defense than Special Defense. Your Special Attack is +1 against targets with lower Special Defense than Defense.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +2)

Conversion - Self Normal Effect: At-Will. Put a Type Coat on yourself. The Coat has the following ability: Your Type changes to a type matching one of your known moves for two minutes or your Type changes to a type that resists that last attack you were hit by for two minutes.

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Psybeam - Ranged(15ft beam) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Porygon 2

Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Flight, Intelligence (very smart), Wired

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Sharpen, Analytic (When attacking a foe who has already acted this round, deal +4 damage.), Download

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)
Teleport - Ranged(50ft) Psychic Effect: 1/day. Teleport may be used as a Reaction. Teleport moves you up to 50ft away in your line of sight. If an enemy would hit you with a move that deals damage, use Teleport as a Reaction to move up to 50ft away in your line of sight and take only 1/4th the damage you would have taken from the attack.

The first technologically created artificial Pokťmon, Porygon, were designed by Silph Co. and consist entirely of digital code. Though they can take crude, blocky, physical forms, they usually assume the form of data and travel through cyberspace. Their non-organic origins mean that they do not require oxygen, water, or other necessities of organic life to survive. Porygon are basic Pokťmon that can only perform tasks enabled in their codes. This includes functions generally reserved for organic life forms. Though Porygon do not require food to survive, they have been programmed to intake things such as Berries and convert them into energy. Porygon are protected with a DRM and cannot be duplicated digitally. However, they have been coded to be able to breed independently with Ditto. By modern day standards, some parts of Porygon code are considered obsolete, though they still remain perfectly functional, if a bit clunky. They are almost never found in the wild, but may still function fine on their own.

Signal Beam - Ranged(15ft beam) Bug Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Confused.

Recover - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP.

450

Once a Porygon receives enough data from its experiences it evolves like other Pokťmon. Porygon 2 are lighter and smaller than their pre-evolutions thanks to optimizations and streamlining. The most enticing feature of their update, though, is their improved artificial intelligence. Porygon 2 can learn from experience, modifying their behavior based on information from their surroundings. The software isn't perfect, however, and may occasionally display a few bugs, manifesting as strange actions not programmed into their original software. Additionally, its deletion algorithm is quite inefficient, causing it to store more data than is necessary over time.

Porygon-Z

Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 14

Skills: Flight, Intelligence, Modular (consists of 2 parts), Wired

Porygon-Z is the result of a Porygon 2 receiving an overflow of data within its experience banks and evolving into a form completely unprepared for by original Silph Co. designs. They are far more powerful than Porygon2 at the cost of their stability. Porygon-Z are frailer and notably more glitchy. Their movements are highly erratic due to the numerous bugs in their programming, likely due to the haphazard nature of their unplanned creation. Porygon-Z were never planned in the original Porygon programming, but as technology rapidly evolved, Porygon programming adapted to evolve with it and become this ultimate form of artificial life.

Passives: Agility, Sharpen, Adaptability (Moves that are the same type as you deal +4 damage.), Analytic, Download
Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +7, Effect +5)
Lock-On - Ranged(40ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. Lock-On can't miss. Your next attack against the same target will not miss.
Tri Attack - Ranged(20ft) Normal Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is randomly either Paralyzed, Burned, or Frozen.
Zap Cannon - Ranged(30ft) Electric Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Zap Cannon has ≠5 during Accuracy Check. On hit the target is Paralyzed.

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Ergovore, Habitat - Urban Plants

Evolution: Porygon

Porygon 2

Porygon-Z

Proficiencies: Elemental Attack / Energy Blast / Normal Block

451

Slakoth / Vigoroth / Slaking 

Slakoth

Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 4

Skills: -

Passives: Truant (All your moves have recharge turns. Truant cannot be removed, ignored, or disabled by any means.)
Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)
Scratch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Yawn - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target falls Asleep after its next turn.
Encore - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. If the target can, it must use the last move it did for the next 3 rounds or until it no longer can.

Vigoroth

Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 48 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 6

Skills: -

Passives: Vital Spirit (You are immune to being put to Sleep.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)
Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.
Chip Away - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. Chip Away has +2 on Accuracy Check if used against a target with a Defense or Special Defense raising passive.
Focus Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 5d12. Focus Punch is a two-turn move. On the first turn: if anyone hits you before your next turn, you are Stunned. On the second turn, move up to twice your movement speed, then roll Focus Punch's Accuracy Check and damage.

Slakoth sleep for twenty hours a day, only waking up to eat or adjust their positions. Due to their lack of motion, however, they don't need to consume much; Slakoth only eat about three handfuls of leaves a day on average before resting again. Generally, Slakoth never change the locations of their nests until they evolve. However, they have been known to travel surprisingly great distances by floating down rivers on logs. Their hearts beat only once a minute, even when potentially in danger. Curiously, despite appearing like sitting ducks, wild Slakoth are rarely ever attacked. Those who see Slakoth loafing around begin to feel drowsy themselves, losing the willpower to attack them. Their claws allow them to climb trees with ease; however, they more commonly use them to dig into branches to prevent themselves from falling off while dozing. Slakoth live in large groups numbering over a hundred. Such troops are protected by troops of Vigoroth and are centered around single Slaking.

452

The hearts of Vigoroth beat at a tenfold tempo, with their body producing energy at a similar rate. They can't sit still for a single second; ceasing movement will stress them out greatly and make them ill. Vigoroth feel a constant urge to go on rampages thanks to their boundless energy. Consequently, they also feel a never-ending desire for food; even when eating, however, they keep moving. Vigoroth don't sleep, instead spending all of their time running about aimlessly. As they run, they will spin and flail their arms about wildly to burn off more energy, destroying much of what is in their way. Vigoroth defend Slaking colonies in troops, putting their endless energy to use. They chase off intruders from their colonies in large numbers; oftentimes, up to a dozen Vigoroth will pursue single threats until sufficiently far away. Vigoroth are also in charge of foraging. They gather large amounts of food to bring back home, eating constantly as they travel. Whatever they don't finish eating is piled up at the center of their nests, where their brethren can then feast.

Slaking
Normal - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 90 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 16 Special Attack: 10

Skills: Strength (very strong)

Passives: Truant

Moves (Attack +8, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)

Slack Off - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP.

Swagger - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.

Slaking spend their days lying on their backs, eating whatever grass and Berries they can reach without moving. Slaking will only move, and reluctantly so, once all the food around them is cleared out. In a colony, there is only one Slaking; should a Vigoroth evolve in the group, it must battle the current Slaking for dominance. Losing individuals are exiled to start new colonies elsewhere in the forest. In the rare event that intruders manage to defeat the Vigoroth in a family group, Slaking will rise and show their true might. Standing on their hind legs, they will unleash all of the power they had saved up while lounging around in a single, devastating blow that can easily level entire swathes of forest. Once finished, they will return to their resting, as usual.

Hammer Arm - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Forests / Woodlands

Evolution: Slakoth

Vigoroth

Slaking

Proficiencies: Bruiser / Elemental Attack / Stampeding (Slaking)

453

Starly / Staravia / Staraptor 

Starly

Normal / Flying - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Flight (can fly), Guster (can produce wind)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Keen Eye (Your accuracy checks cannot be negatively affected by foes.)
Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +1, Effect +3)
Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.
Wing Attack - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d8.
Astonish - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Staravia

Normal / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Flight, Guster

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Intimidate (+1 Defense), Keen Eye

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +5)

Endeavor - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day. On hit, if the target has more HP than you, the target's HP is set to equal your HP.

Whirlwind - Ranged(20ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, moves the target 60ft away.

Aerial Ace - Melee Flying Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense.

Starly are one of the most abundant species of Pokťmon. Though naturally found in forests and mountains, their hardy natures have also made them common sights above towns and cities as well. Starly fly in large flocks, with larger groups known to blot out the sun as they migrate through populated areas. Alone, Starly are rather unremarkable Pokťmon; in flocks, however, groups of them can beat their wings in unison to whip up light windstorms. Their small wings are strong in comparison to the rest of their bodies, enabling them to fly for long distances. There appears to be a limit on how large flocks of Starly can be, after a certain size, Starly will begin bickering and scatter in different directions, splitting off into separate flocks. The Pokťmon have very strident cries; their cacophonous singing can cause large disturbances in urban areas.

454

Staravia are rarely encountered alone, as they are almost invariably found in flocks with others of their kind. It seems that Staravia are aware of their weakness alone, hence their reluctance to engage in any kind of solitary activity. Staravia flocks stick together, with members being able to recognize each other on sight. They are territorial, staking out swathes of forest and defending their land from others. Should two flocks encounter each other, they will begin to bicker and engage in fierce aerial fights over disputed territory. The battles only end once all members of one of the flocks have been knocked out of the sky. Lone Staravia can easily be recognized by their shrill, harsh cries. They will not stop crying until they find their flocks, much to the chagrin of nearby residents.

Staraptor

Normal / Flying - Large (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 54 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 6 Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 12 Special Attack: 5 Skills: Flight, Guster Passives: Agility, Intimidate, Keen Eye, Reckless (Your attacks that damage yourself on hit, deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +2, Effect +6)

Air Cutter - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: At-Will 2d8.

Air Cutter has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got

Staraptor leave their flocks to continue life as solitary

18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Air Cutter is a critical hit.

hunters. They are aggressive Pokťmon, known to challenge foes much larger than themselves. Their wing muscles and talons are very strong, enabling them to take down oppo-

Close Combat - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Defense and Special Defense are -2 for 10 mins.

nents with ease. Staraptor are territorial and will defend

Brave Bird - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you

their land with all of their strength. Even when injured, they lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

will continue to ferociously fight back attackers. Staraptor

are strictly carnivorous, feeding on smaller Pokťmon. Their

talons are capable of carrying prey all the way back to their nests. They pride themselves on the arrangement of Biology: Egg Group - Flying, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet their head feathers, called combs. They will viciously attack Omnivore, Habitat - Fields / Forests / Mountains / Urban

those who dishevel them. During their spare time, Starap- Evolution: Starly tor can be seen preening and adjusting the feathers in their

Staravia

Staraptor

combs

Proficiencies: Fighting / Flying / Avian / Winged

455

Whismur / Loudred / Exploud 

Whismur

Normal - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 2 Special Defense: 2

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 5

Skills: -

Passives: Soundproof (You are immune to sound-based attacks.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)
Pound - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Echoed Voice - Ranged(10ft) Normal Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. Echoed Voice deals +5 damage if you used it during the previous round.
Astonish - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Loudred

Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 48 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 7

Skills: -

Passives: Screech (+2 Attack), Soundproof

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Supersonic - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. Supersonic has -8 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.

Whismur normally speak in very quiet murmurs, just barely audible if one strains to listen. However, if they sense danger, they will begin to cry at an earsplitting volume. They use echolocation to navigate dark caves. Curiously, they can breathe using holes near their ears instead of their mouths, letting them to cry continuously without running out of air. Covering their ears, though, will cause them to stop wailing. In an increasingly loud cycle, the sound of their own crying will startle them and cause them to cry even more until they simply become too exhausted and fall asleep. By shrieking at such loud volumes, Whismur can cause rocks and stalactites to break off from the ceiling to the ground, trapping and injuring those beneath.

Stomp - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

456

Loudred build power by stomping one of their feet repeatedly on the ground. They attack by bellowing at tremendously loud volumes; their ears act as loudspeakers when they yell, further amplifying their sounds. They have very well-developed stomach muscles that allow them to quickly suck in large amounts of air before attacks. After they yell, the sheer volume of their shouting renders them deaf for a short period of time. They are highly vulnerable to retaliation during this period, as they cannot hear incoming attacks. When fighting for territory, dueling Loudred deafen each other quickly, but will continue yelling without knowing who is louder. Competitions end not when one Loudred is deemed the loudest, but rather when the others simply tire and walk away. Such matches can potentially last for days until the Loudred grow hoarse from shouting.

Exploud

Normal - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 9

Skills: -

Passives: Screech, Scrappy (Your Normal-type and Fightingtype attacks can hit Ghost-type targets.), Soundproof

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)

Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the tar-

get's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Exploud are able to control the volume of their voices with ease. Outside of battle, they are no louder than other Pokťmon, choosing to communicate with whistles of different volumes and pitches from the various sound-producing organs on their bodies. In battle, however, they reveal their true sonic capabilities. When attacking, their bellows can potentially be heard from over 6 miles away. Before Ex-

Uproar - Ranged(20ft burst) Normal Special Attack: 1/day 3d10. Uproar is a three-turn move. On each of its turns, you can move normally, then roll Uproar's accuracy check and damage. Sleeping Pokťmon within range of Uproar are awoken and Pokťmon cannot go to Sleep within Uproar's range.

ploud shout, sharp, high-pitched whistling can be heard as Hyper Voice - Ranged(30ft beam) Normal Special Attack: 1/

they draw in air. They can pulverize solid concrete by

day 3d12.

screaming. They can imitate virtually any wind instrument

using their assembly of pipes and can control their pitch and volume without the need for tuning.

Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Caves

Evolution: Whismur

Loudred

Exploud

Proficiencies: Elemental Attack FI / Fangs / Sound

457

Aipom / Ambipom 

Aipom

Normal - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain)

Passives: Screech (+2 Attack), Run Away (+1 Speed)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +5)
Fury Swipes - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Fury Swipes has -2 during Accuracy Check. Fury Swipes is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Swift - Ranged(20ft) Normal Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.
Astonish - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Ambipom
Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7
Speed: 14 (70 ft.) Attack: 12 Special Attack: 6
Skills: Climber
Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Screech, Skill Link (Your scatter moves have +2 during Accuracy Check.), Technician (When rolling damage, replace any rolled 1s or 2s with 3.)
Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +7)
Double Hit - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 2d8. Double Hit is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.
Rock Throw - Ranged(20ft) Rock Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Pursuit - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d6. Pursuit deals +6 damage to a target if they ended their turn further away from you during the start of their turn.

Aipom make their homes in tall treetops, rarely descending to the ground--in fact, some individuals live their whole lives without ever touching the forest floor. Aipom use their prehensile tails to swing from tree branch to tree branch, using momentum to leap around. They can suspend their entire bodies and latch onto branches with just their tails. These tails are highly dexterous, able to manipulate objects around them as tools. Young Aipom, for example, may play -fight each other with makeshift swords fashioned from branches and leaves. Older Aipom can be seen whittling down wood to form rudimentary stakes, useful for spearing into the hard shells of some fruits, nuts, and Berries. Aipom use their tails to grab hard-to-reach fruit in trees, and may even shake some fruit off of their branches for younger Aipom below to enjoy. Their tails are also used to keep them balanced. Aipom use their tails so extensively and exclusively that their true hands have become vestigial and more or less useless over many years of evolution.
Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Jungles

Evolution: Aipom

Ambipom

Proficiencies: Elemental Attack E / Martial (No Kicks) / Tricky

458

Ambipom live high up in the treetops in large colonies.

At a first glance, Bidoof appear rather dull, clumsy, and

They have two dexterous tails with hands on their ends.

aloof to their surroundings. A closer examination, however,

Their hands have become vestigial, as they exclusively use reveals that they are in fact quite the opposite. Found nest-

their tails for virtually all tasks. Ambipom eat fruits and nuts ing near streams and rivers, Bidoof are surprisingly agile

that grow within the trees they live in. They use their tails to for their size and shape. Their most important trait is their

deftly peel fruit and shuck nuts; rinds and shells often litter industriousness. Bidoof are exceptionally hard workers,

the ground below. They also use their tails to swing from laboring from dawn to dusk as they build and repair nests

branch to branch, and are capable of suspending them-

on the riverside. Even when finished with this task, they will

selves from branches using their tails as they eat or play. gnaw down logs for their evolutions Bibarel to use in their

They can sometimes be seen holding hands as they link

dams, still intent on helping out. While Bidoof work, they

their tails together in rings. This gesture is a sign of peace focus all of their attention on their tasks, ignoring every-

and friendship amongst a colony. They communicate by thing else around them. This has given them reputations

holding tails with each other and making different gestures for being unaware of things happening to them. Bidoof

with them. In battle, Ambipom nimbly manipulate their two routinely whittle their teeth by gnawing on logs and rocks.

tails and many opponents may find it very difficult to dodge

both of their consecutive attacks. Ambipom colonies often

get into territorial disputes with another Pokťmon species.

To display pleasure, Ambipom will clap their tails together

happily. They will express affection by clasping their tails

tightly around others in a hug.

459

Bidoof / Bibarel 

Bidoof

Normal - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Defense Curl (+1 Defense)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Rollout - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Rollout against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Rollout's damage.
Yawn - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target falls Asleep after its next turn.

Bibarel

Normal / Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Fountain (can produce water), Swimmer

Passives: Amnesia (+2 Special Defense), Rototiller (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Swords Dance (+2 Attack)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Hyper Fang - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Superpower - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Attack and Defense is -2 for 10 mins.

Bibarel trade in some of their terrestrial motor skills for aquatic agility; while clumsy and slow on land, they can swim swiftly through flowing currents. Bibarel make their nests by damming up rivers with logs and mud. They spend their days cutting down new trees to patch up holes in their dams while making sure that they will not overflow. This rigorous inspection process is highly effective; within the last decade, there have been fewer overflows in Bibarel dams than their have in human ones. Because of this, communities who live near or in former riverbeds greatly appreciate Bibarel populations. Bibarel are sensitive to small changes in water currents, allowing them to sense flash floods before they occur. When they feel deluges approaching, they will quickly reinforce their dams to prevent the floods from overflowing over above them.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Rivers

Evolution: Bidoof

Bibarel

Proficiencies: Water / Elemental Attack EI / Fangs

460

Buneary / Lopunny 

Buneary

Normal - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 4

Skills: -

Passives: Defense Curl (+1 Defense), Run Away (+1 Speed)
Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +5)
Pound - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Endure - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Endure is used as a Reaction. If you would be hit by an attack that would knock you out, use Endure to instead be left with 1 HP.
Jump Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d10. Jump Kick has -2 during Accuracy Check. If you miss, you lose HP equal to half of your Max HP.

Buneary can be found in forests and on icy mountains. They feed on grasses, flowers, and other low-growing plants. Their ears are very sensitive, and serve as their main method of detecting predators. One can tell how Buneary are feeling based on the position of their ears; if both are perked up, they are on guard and alert. If they both are withdrawn, on the other hand, they are scared and nervous. Buneary defend themselves using their long ears. They roll them up and then uncoil them quickly to punch attackers. Though docile, these Pokťmon are also very timid and may strike out of fear when startled. Buneary can strike the ground beneath them with their ears to propel themselves surprisingly high, allowing them to launch aerial attacks. When cold, these Pokťmon tuck their heads into their fur to stay warm.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Forests / Grasslands / Mountains

Evolution: Buneary

Lopunny

Proficiencies: Elemental Attack EI / Kicks / Punches

Lopunny

Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 13 (65 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 6

Skills: -

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Defense Curl (+1 Defense), Rototiller (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Cute Charm (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Infatuate the attacker.), Limber (You are immune to being Paralyzed.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +6)
Return - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Return can only be used if you have 3 or more loyalty.
Bounce - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Bounce is a twoturn move. On the first turn, raise yourself 40 ft into the air. On the second turn, return to the ground, move up to twice your movement rate, then you may roll Bounce's Accuracy Check and damage. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
High Jump Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. High Jump Kick has -2 during Accuracy Check. If you miss, you lose HP equal to half of your Max HP.

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 461

Lopunny are very timid and are quick to sprint off at the first sign of danger. They run with high, graceful jumps that make it difficult for predators catch them while in motion. Their fluffy fur is shed twice a year, once in the summer and once in the winter. While their summer coats are light and airy, their winter coats are warm, soft, and fluffy. If cornered, Lopunny will become very skittish, cloaking themselves with their large ears to hide. Should foes continue to hound them, however, they will be met with nasty flurries of kicks to head. Their legs are very strong, thanks to their frequent jumping. This makes their kicks very powerful, much to the surprise of most foes. In their spare time, Lopunny can often be found grooming and cleaning the delicate fur on their ears. One of the few situations in which these Pokťmon will become hostile is if their clean fur is sullied, causing them to lash out aggressively.

Bunnelby have ears that are adapted to digging through dirt, whether it is loose or compacted. These Pokťmon are nocturnal, spending much of the day asleep in underground burrows. They use their powerful prehensile ears to quickly shovel long tunnels through dirt. These ears are strong enough to break through thick tree roots that happen to be in their way. Bunnelby are industrious Pokťmon that can work for long periods of time, often spending entire nights digging without stopping to rest. They will sometimes dig superfluous tunnels around their burrows as practice to strengthen their ears. These destination-less tunnels also serve to confuse predators that enter their burrows. Particularly hardworking Bunnelby have been known to develop ears strong enough to pulverize stone. Bunnelby primarily feed on the roots of plants that they come across while digging; they will even eat through the hardier roots of trees, using their ears to break the tough roots up into more manageable pieces. Bunnelby also have very sensitive hearing, allowing them to detect predators approaching. As skittish Pokťmon, they will quickly duck into their burrows at the first sign of danger.

462

Bunnelby / Diggersby 

Bunnelby

Normal - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Burrow (moves through earth easily)

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Leer (+1 Attack), Cheek Pouch (Whenever you consume a berry, you recover 10 HP in addition to any other effects.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +1, Effect +4)
Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.
Mud-Slap - Ranged(5ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 1d6. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.
Laser Focus - Ranged(30ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, your next attack against the same target will be a Critical Hit. You still need to make an Accuracy Check.

Diggersby are most easily distinguished by the pair of huge, arm like ears that they sport. These highly-developed, prehensile ears exceed the actual hands of many other Pokťmon in both strength and maneuverability. Diggersby are capable of lifting boulders weighing remove the same amount of weight in dirt from the ground in no time at all using these appendages. Additionally, these ears can reduce solid bedrock to rubble with successive blows. These features make Diggersby ideal candidates for workers in construction, demolition, and excavation sites. Though they are industrious workers, Diggersby also seem to know the value of leisure as well; they can often be seen lounging around on long breaks after finishing their work. In the wild, Diggersby build their burrows underground or in rocky mountainsides.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Fields / Forests / Mountains

Evolution: Bunnelby

Diggersby

Proficiencies: Ground / Rock / Punches (Diggersby)

Diggersby
Normal / Ground - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 54 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8
Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 13 Special Attack: 6
Skills: Burrow
Passives: Agility, Huge Power (+6 Attack), Rototiller (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Cheek Pouch
Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +5)
Double Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 2d8. Double Kick is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.
Dig - Melee Ground Attack: 3/day 3d10. Dig is a two-turn move. On the first turn, burrow up to 40 ft straight down. On the second turn, burrow up to your movement speed +40 ft, then you can roll Dig's Accuracy Check and damage.
Hammer Arm - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

463

Deerling / Sawsbuck 

Deerling

Normal / Grass - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Seasonal (Deerling and Sawsbuck change their appearance depending on the season of the year.), Sprouter (can manipulate plant life)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Chlorophyll (While in Sunny Weather, your Speed is +2.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Double Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 2d8. Double Kick is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.

Leech Seed - Ranged(10ft) Grass Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target gets a Seed Coat. The Coat has the following ability: At the beginning of your turn, if you are within 20 ft of the enemy who gave you the Seed Coat, you lose 1d12 HP. The enemy who gave you the Seed Coat will gain the same amount of HP that you lost. This Coat lasts for 3 mins, or until you are at 0 or less HP.
Sawsbuck
Normal / Grass - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)
Hit Points: 48 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 7
Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 10 Special Attack: 6
Skills: Seasonal, Sprouter
Passives: Growl, Chlorophyll, Sap Sipper (You are immune to Grass-type attacks. If you would be hit by a Grass-type attack, your Attack is +2 for 10 mins.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +5)
Horn Leech - Melee Grass Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Deerling are found primarily in montane forests, though they are known to venture into lowland areas from time to time as well. They are herbivorous Pokťmon that graze on low-growing vegetation. They are also very timid, hiding in tall grass at the slightest indication of danger. Deerling are most famous for their ability to change color in accordance with the seasons. These Pokťmon are pink in the spring to blend in with budding flowers, green in the summer to camouflage with verdant vegetation, orange in the fall to match autumn leaves, and brown in the winter to hide against bare trees. Their scents also change to match that of the vegetation of each season, in order to further conceal themselves from predators. Their fur's hue is also affected by temperature and humidity. When near the equator, where seasons are less pronounced than in temperate areas, Deerling may only change color slightly or even not at all.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Herbivore / Phototroph, Habitat - Forests / Woodlands

Evolution: Deerling

Sawsbuck

Proficiencies: Grass / Kicks

Energy Ball - Ranged(20ft) Grass Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Double Edge - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

464

Instead of flight, Doduo choose running as their pre-

Sawsbuck live in herds in montane forests. Their most ferred method of travel, and are capable of high speed on

striking features are their antlers, which host a variety of flat surfaces, which are abundant in the plains and savan-

different plants throughout the year. These plants obtain nas they call home. While sprinting, they may leave foot-

nutrients from the vegetation Sawsbuck eat, and in turn provide them with camouflage to hide in the surrounding environments. In the spring, the flowers budding on their antlers match those growing around them. In the summer and autumn, vivid leaves grow and change color to let Sawsbuck blend in with the trees of the forest. Finally, in the winter, white moss grows over their antlers and fur to allow them to conceal themselves in snow. Sawsbuck herds are led by the individuals with the largest antlers and most beautiful plants growing on them. These Pokťmon migrate

prints in the dirt as deep as four inches. Doduo alternately bob their heads to keep balance while running. Their two heads have identical brains and can communicate with each other through telepathy in order to accomplish common goals. The two heads take turns sleeping; while one dozes off, the other keeps watch for any potential dangers approaching. This team effort makes it difficult to catch Doduo off-guard. They are able to use both heads at once for some offensive maneuvers, effectively being able to target two enemies at the same time if necessary.

to different areas each season and return to their initial

habitats once spring comes around again.

465

Doduo / Dodrio 

Doduo

Normal / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 4

Skills: -

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Run Away (+1 Speed)
Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)
Peck - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.
Fury Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Fury Attack has -2 during Accuracy Check. Fury Attack is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Dodrio
Normal / Flying - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)
Hit Points: 36 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 6
Speed: 13 (65 ft.) Attack: 13 Special Attack: 6
Skills: -
Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Growl, Swords Dance (+2 Attack), Early Bird (You roll twice during checks to wake from Sleep and use the higher result.), Tangled Feet (While you are confused, any foe's attacks made against you have -1 during accuracy check.)
Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +6)
Tri Attack - Ranged(20ft) Normal Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is randomly either Paralyzed, Burned, or Frozen.
Pursuit - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d6. Pursuit deals +6 damage to a target if they ended their turn further away from you during the start of their turn.
Jump Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d10. Jump Kick has -2 during Accuracy Check. If you miss, you lose HP equal to half of your Max HP.

Each Dodrio head controls a different basic emotion; one expresses joy, one sadness, and one anger. Dodrio also have three sets of hearts and lungs, allowing them to tirelessly run long distances. They can jump extremely well to make up for their lack of flying abilities. They can also use their three heads to conceive complex plans to search for food or defend themselves. However, they may occasionally over-exhaust themselves with this, and will remain motionless for extended periods of time while recovering. Their heads do argue sometimes, since the emotions they control tend to disagree. However, like many internal conflicts, these inner spats are usually solved with food. Since they share the same stomach, when one of the heads eats, the other two will be satisfied as well. Those who live near Dodrio may be woken up early in the morning by their raucous calls-- they squawk at the same time every day without fail.

Biology: Egg Group - Flying, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Deserts / Plains / Savannas

Evolution: Doduo

Dodrio

Proficiencies: Flying / Avian / Kicks

466

Dunsparce / Dudunsparce 

Dunsparce

Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 60 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Burrow (moves through earth easily), Flight (can fly)

Passives: Coil (+2 Attack, +1 Defense), Defense Curl (+1 Defense), Screech (+2 Attack), Rattled (When a foe hits you with a Bug-type, Ghost-type, or Dark-type attack, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins. This can stack.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Yawn - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target falls Asleep after its next turn.

Dig - Melee Ground Attack: 3/day 3d10. Dig is a two-turn move. On the first turn, burrow up to 40 ft straight down. On the second turn, burrow up to your movement speed +40 ft, then you can roll Dig's Accuracy Check and damage.

Dunsparce are troglobitic, living out their entire lives in pitch-black caves. They are very nearly blind, using the two protrusions on the undersides of their lower jaws to feel their way around in total darkness. When threatened, they will burrow backwards into the earth using their drill-like tails. Dunsparce form very intricate subterranean nests, living in in colonies called broods numbering in the hundreds. Predators who are able to follow Dunsparce down their holes as they burrow to escape will be met with nearinescapable mazes of intersecting tunnels. In some regions, they even cohabitate peacefully with other burrowing Pokťmon and share their tunnel networks. Dunsparce also have pairs of vestigial wing growths located on their backs. Though they are very weak, Dunsparce can be trained to float and fly for several seconds by flapping these growths furiously.

Air Slash - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. Air Slash has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Dudunsparce

Normal - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 78 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 14

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Burrow, Flight, Segmented (Dudunsparce can have two to five middle segments. Dudunsparce that have 4 or 5 middle segments are Huge (Size)).
Passives: Defense Curl, Coil, Screech, Rattled

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Monster, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Caves

Evolution: Dunsparce

Dudunsparce

Proficiencies: Ground / Elemental Attack / Winged

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)
Hyper Drill - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Hyper Drill cannot be prevented by reaction moves.
Boomburst - Ranged(25ft burst) Normal Special Attack: 1/ day 3d12. Anyone within range of Boomburst is cured of Sleep.
Endeavor - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day. On hit, if the target has more HP than you, the target's HP is set to equal your HP.

467

Girafarig are most well-known for their two heads--an Trainers may need to take a second to confirm that their actual head and a rear head--both of which have their own

Dunsparce have indeed evolved when they become Dudun- separate brains. The brains in their true heads are far more

sparce. Other than growing larger, sprouting some new

developed and are the main source of their psychic pow-

spikes, and gaining additional segments, Dudunsparce are ers; their rear heads are rather primitive and can only focus

almost identical to their pre-evolutions. Like Dunsparce,

on one object at a time. The two brains appear to be con-

these Pokťmon make their homes deep underground, bur- nected in some manner. When Girafarig graze on grass and

rowing through bedrock with their drill-like tails to con-

tree shoots, their rear heads mimic the chewing motions

struct elaborate nests that can total up to six miles in

the true heads make even though they aren't eating any-

length. Because their labyrinths are so confusing, it is com- thing. Similar behavior can be observed when Girafarig vo-

mon for other subterranean Pokťmon to get lost within

calize, spit, yawn, or otherwise use their mouths. Though

them. Dudunsparce are gentle creatures, though, and will the rear heads have rudimentary brains, they also have

carry these Pokťmon on their backs back up to the surface. very well-developed senses of smell. They react to particu-

When they sense hostile intruders, however, they will fill larly alluring scents by lashing out and biting. This enables

their lungs with vast quantities of air and expel it to send Girafarig to fend from threats approaching from behind.

strong gusts blowing through their tunnels. Enemies within Their rear heads don't need sleep. Thus, they are able to will find themselves blown straight out into the open. The keep watch and defend against enemies even when the number of segments a Dudunsparce possesses is based on main heads are resting.

its genetics; though two-segment individuals are most com-

mon, three-segment, four-segment and occasionally even

longer variants are sometimes found.

468

Girafarig / Farigiraf 

Girafarig

Normal / Psychic - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Nasty Plot (+1 Special Attack), Early Bird (You roll twice during checks to wake from Sleep and use the higher result.), Inner Focus (You are immune to being Stunned.), Sap Sipper (You are immune to Grass-type attacks. If you would be hit by a Grass-type attack, your Attack is +2 for 10 mins.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)
Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Stomp - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Farigiraf

When Girafarig evolve into Farigiraf, an unusual transformation occurs in which their rear heads migrate to envelop their front heads, hardening into what amounts to sheathes of armor. Additionally, their two brains wire together with very thick nerves, allowing them to essentially function as a single unit. Because of this dual processing, Farigiraf are said to wield psychic abilities ten times as strong as those of Girafarig. Their antennae are constantly emitting low levels of psychic energy to scan their surroundings, and these Pokťmon are almost never caught off -guard as a result. They sometimes think so quickly that their physical bodies cannot react in time, however. Farigiraf are skilled in both special and physical attacks. When using their psychic abilities, their rear heads' eyes glow green, and they can fire powerful beams of concentrated energy. When using physical attacks, their rear heads close around their front heads, allowing them to swing their hard necks with enough force to shatter stone.

Normal / Psychic - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 72 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 12

Skills: Telekinetic, Telepath (can read minds)

Passives: Agility, Growl (+1 Defense), Nasty Plot, Armor Tail (You are immune to priority attacks that are used out of turn order during combat.), Cud Chew (When you consume a berry, its effect will activate a second time 1 round of combat later.), Sap Sipper

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +6, Effect +4)

Twin Beam - Ranged(30ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. Twin Beam is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.

Double Hit - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 2d8. Double Hit is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.

Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Plains / Savannas

Evolution: Girafarig

Farigiraf

Proficiencies: Dark / Psychic / Elemental Attack E / Stampeding

469

Glameow / Purugly 

Glameow

Normal - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Stealth (can make stealth skill checks)

Passives: Charm (+1 Defense), Limber (You are immune to being Paralyzed.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)
Fake Out - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 2d6. Fake Out has Priority. Fake Out can only be used as your first action during an encounter. On hit, the target is Stunned.
Hypnosis - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Effect: 3/day. Hypnosis has -4 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is put Asleep.
Feint Attack - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense.

Purugly

Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6
Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 10 Special Attack: 6
Skills: Stealth
Passives: Charm, Hone Claws (+2 Attack), Defiant (If a foe lowers any of your stats, you have +2 Attack until your lowered stats are returned to normal.), Own Tempo (You are immune to being Confused), Thick Fat (You take -4 damage from Fire-type attacks and Ice-type attacks.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +5)
Swagger - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.
Body Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed. Body Slam can Paralyze Electric-types.
Play Rough - Melee Fairy Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Glameow can be fickle Pokťmon; despite this, they are very popular pets found in many homes. Some find their difficulty appealing, likening it to the attitudes of young children. It is easy to read the mood of a Glameow; when happy, it will purr contently and twirl its tail around like a ribbon. When unhappy, though, it will unsheathe its claws. Glameow will become displeased when hungry, thirsty, tired, too warm or cold, or just generally uncomfortable. Thus, they can be difficult Pokťmon to keep content much of the time, and their trainers may often find themselves dedicating large portions of their schedules to pleasing their Glameow. Glameow can be spiteful creatures, remembering those who displease them with great clarity and exacting revenge at much later dates.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Urban

Evolution: Glameow

Purugly

Proficiencies: Claws / Elemental Attack E

470

For lack of a better term, Purugly are what would

Hoothoot are most well-known for their uncanny senses

normally be referred to as bullies. They don't build their

of time. Thanks to special organs that sense the earth's

own nests, but instead wander around in search of those of rotation, these Pokťmon have one of the most accurate

others to take over. They will unflinchingly barge into

internal clocks in the world. All Hoothoot in a forest will

homes that aren't theirs and assess them; if they find them sufficiently comfortable, they will seize them over and kick the owners out. If they are unsatisfactory, rather than simply leaving, Purugly will make sure to destroy the nests as well. They are even known to break into human homes to sleep in bedrooms, ransacking the houses once rested. When confronted, Purugly will stare down their foes aggressively. They staunchly refuse to be the first to break

hoot at precisely the same time every day, together, without fail. They are nocturnal Pokťmon that can often be seen sleeping in tree hollows during the day. Curiously, although they have two feet, they always stand on only one, even when sleeping. Like metronomes, Hoothoot sometimes rock back and forth to steady rhythms, with each sway being equivalent to one second; each second is a tick or tock in their swaying.

eye contact and will continue to glare until their foes look

away. To appear more intimidating and brawnier, they will

constrict their forked tails around their bodies, squeezing in

their flabby stomachs. They will aggressively attack

anything bothering them, with bothering defined as being

within eyesight.

471

Hoothoot / Noctowl 

Hoothoot

Normal / Flying - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 3

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Keen Eye (Your accuracy checks cannot be negatively affected by foes.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +2, Effect +2) Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Peck - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d6. Hypnosis - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Effect: 3/day. Hypnosis has -4 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is put Asleep.

Noctowl

Normal / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Flight, Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)

Passives: Growl, Insomnia (You are immune to being put to Sleep.), Keen Eye, Tinted Lens (Your resisted attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)

Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Zen Headbutt - Melee Psychic Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Noctowl have long been regarded as shrewd Pokťmon, capable of seeing into the future. Their heads are capable of turning 180į, both backwards and upside-down. It is thought that when a Noctowl completely inverts its head, it is in deep thought. This is actually a warning that signals caution, and the Noctowl may attack with a flurry of pecks if not left alone after this. Noctowl are superb hunters. Their eyes are adapted to see with even the tiniest amounts of light, allowing them to fly around with ease even when the moon is obscured. Their soft feathers produce no sound when they flap, enabling them to sneak up on prey without being noticed. Despite their Normal- and Flying-types, Noctowl possess Psychic-type techniques, perhaps some evidence towards their purported future-seeing powers. In many cultures, these Pokťmon are regarded as symbols of wisdom and perception.

Air Slash - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. Air Slash has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Biology: Egg Group - Flying, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Woodlands

Evolution: Hoothoot

Noctowl

Proficiencies: Flying / Psychic / Avian / Winged

472

Lechonk / Oinkologne 

Lechonk

Normal - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Alluring (attracts others with their aroma), Tracker (can follow scents)

Passives: Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Aroma Veil (You and your allies within 10ft of you are immune to the effects of the moves Heal Block, Taunt, Encore, and Disable and the passive Cursed Body.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Disarming Voice - Ranged(10ft) Fairy Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.
Covet - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, steals the target's held item, if any.

Oinkologne

Lechonk are gourmands who will only eat the choicest of foods. In the wild, they use their keen senses of smell to locate the most flavorful Berries and fragrant grasses, skipping over all but the most delicious parts of them. Because of this, they actually do not eat all that much; most of the heft they carry is actually muscle built up from their constant foraging. Their aromatic diets perfume Lechonk themselves, and the Pokťmon waft a natural insect repellent as they meander about. The exact scent depends on their diets. Different parts of the region raise Lechonk on mixes of local herbage to perfume the ham in unique ways. Lechonk are easily startled and will charge straight ahead if surprised. Due to their superb senses of smell, they are often taken into mountains and forests by foragers, trained to locate rare delicacies.

Normal - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)
Hit Points: 66 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8
Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 12 Special Attack: 7
Hit Points: 72 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 9
Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 7
Skills: Alluring, Tracker
Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Work Up (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Aroma Veil [Female], Lingering Aroma [Male] (When you are hit by a foe's melee attack, disable all of the foe's ability passives, then they gain Lingering Aroma for 10 mins.), Thick Fat (You take -4 damage from Fire-type attacks and Ice-type attacks.)

Moves (Attack +6/+5, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 5 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Grasslands

Evolution: Lechonk

Oinkologne

Proficiencies: Ground (Special Attacks) (Oinkologne) / Glutton

Uproar - Ranged(20ft burst) Normal Special Attack: 1/day 3d10. Uproar is a three-turn move. On each of its turns, you can move normally, then roll Uproar's accuracy check and damage. Sleeping Pokťmon within range of Uproar are awoken and Pokťmon cannot go to Sleep within Uproar's range.

Double Edge - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

Earth Power - Ranged(15ft) Ground Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

473

Male and female Oinkologne not only look different, but

smell different as well. Darker males release a potent,

Lickitung are known for their large tongues, which can

alluring musk from the tips of their tails while females emit be extended outwards. They have well-developed muscles

a floral, calming scent from theirs. In both, they serve as and nerves running down their tongues, allowing them to

powerful pheromones to entice potential mates. As

manipulate them freely to use as feelers of sorts. Their

Oinkologne judge mates based on the qualities of their

tongues are the most receptive part of their bodies, even

aromas, both males and females are very particular about more sensitive than their hands. When they come across

what they eat in order to craft the most attractive

unfamiliar objects, they will lick them, as they associate

fragrance. Males take pride in their glossy skin, and care things by texture and taste. When their tongues extend,

more for personal appearances rather than their

their tails retract; the two organs are connected by a single

surroundings. Their scents tend to excite energy in those muscle system. Lickitung saliva causes a tingling sensation

who smell it. In contrast, females are particular about

upon contact. When threatened, Lickitung can also secrete

keeping their territories spotless. Their fragrances are

a substance that mixes with their sticky saliva and

calming and deter conflict around them. Extracts from both paralyzes upon contact. This substance also causes people

genders are prized in the perfume industry for their

to break out into a rash if not quickly cleaned. Though

intoxicating qualities.

Lickitung often chase down people and Pokťmon, they are

not aggressive. In addition to using their tongues to feel

new things, they also use them to detect food particles on

others and lick them off to clean them, though this always

leaves a rather unpleasant odor behind.

474

Lickitung / Lickilicky 

Lickitung

Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Reach (melee range is 15 ft.)

Passives: Defense Curl (+1 Defense), Own Tempo (You are immune to being Confused.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +1)
Lick - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d8. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Supersonic - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. Supersonic has -8 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.
Knock Off - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target drops any held items or weapons.

Lickilicky

Lickilicky have tongues drenched in saliva, which is abnormally acidic when compared to the saliva of other Pokťmon; it can dissolve even stone given time. It appears to be a cocktail of many different, complex substances. The drool also contains a compound that causes numbness upon contact; this sensation does not fade on its own and requires medical attention to cure. The numbing substance appears to have a dulling effect on nerves under the skin, leading to the loss of feeling in affected areas. Their tongues are extremely long; they capture prey by constricting victims with their tongues like ropes as their saliva begins to dissolve and paralyze them. Their first instinct when they come across something unfamiliar is to lick it, as they associate and remember things based on their textures and tastes. Consequently, drawing too close to Lickilicky may lead to becoming drenched in saliva. Their tongues are quite dexterous, and are used to pick up small objects in place of their clumsier hands. Their mouths are very spacious, as they have enough room for their rolled-up tongues to fit within. Additionally, they have wells in their mouths to hold and store excess saliva.

Normal - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 66 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Reach (melee range is 25 ft.), Threaded (can move around with tongue)

Passives: Defense Curl, Cloud Nine (As a free action you may deplete one use of Defog and use Defog.), Oblivious (You are immune to Infatuation.), Own Tempo

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +2)

Stomp - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Rollout - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Rollout against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Rollout's damage.

Power Whip - Melee Grass Attack: 1/day 5d12. Power Whip has -2 during Accuracy Check.

Biology: Egg Group - Monster, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Jungles

Evolution: Lickitung

Lickilicky

Proficiencies: Rock / Elemental Attack / Normal Block / Weather

475

Meowth / Persian 

Meowth

Normal - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Stealth (can make stealth skill checks)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Screech (+2 Attack), Technician (When rolling damage, replace any rolled 1s or 2s with 3.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)
Fake Out - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 2d6. Fake Out has Priority. Fake Out can only be used as your first action during an encounter. On hit, the target is Stunned.

Fury Swipes - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Fury Swipes has -2 during Accuracy Check. Fury Swipes is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks. Feint Attack - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense.
This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2.

Persian

Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Stealth

Passives: Growl, Screech, Limber (You are immune to being Paralyzed.), Technician, Unnerve (Foes within 25ft of you cannot consume food.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +6)

Meowth are urban Pokťmon that make their homes in towns and cities, though a few feral Meowth also dwell in the forests bordering cities. They are nocturnal in nature, sleeping through the day and prowling the streets at night. While generally solitary, Meowth are known to form groups that band together in search for round or shiny objects, both of which they treasure. When they find round objects like balls, they will often play with them until they tire out and fall asleep. On the other hand, when Meowth find shiny objects--most commonly loose change dropped by people--they will hoard them in large, hidden piles, which they will only share with those they trust deeply. The coins on their heads glow when they find shiny things. When stalking, their eyes gleam brightly in the moonlight. Meowth retract their claws to muffle their steps. Meowth prowl about to defend their hordes from any enemies who also have a fondness for shiny things. Wild Meowth will quickly befriend anyone who gifts them with shiny objects, but will lose interest just as quickly once they stop receiving presents.

Power Gem - Ranged(20ft) Rock Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.
Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.
Night Slash - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Night Slash is a critical hit.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Urban

Evolution: Meowth

Persian

Proficiencies: Dark / Elemental Attack E (Persian) / Slashing

Evolution Shift compatible with Meowth (Tropical) family (155), Meowth (Cold Climate) family (636)
476

Persian are extremely difficult to control and are prone to slashing those that make eye contact with or displease them with their claws, leaving deep gashes. The jewels on their heads glow in the darkness. Persian judge each other by the sizes of their jewels. Despite their fickleness, Persian are very graceful creatures. Their lithe muscles allow them to walk silently while remaining ready to pounce on prey at any second. Persian use their whiskers to scout around their domains, sensing air movements and using the information to plan their attacks accordingly. They will become docile, however, if these whiskers are grabbed or damaged.

Minccino live in large herds in woodlands and in mountains. These Pokťmon are obsessed with cleanliness and will not rest until their surroundings are absolutely spotless. They use their soft tails as brooms to sweep the ground and clean dirty rocks and leaves, which they will also organize into neat, symmetrical patterns. Afterwards, they will spend as much as much as an entire day washing their tails in clear spring water. Two Minccino will greet each other by rubbing tails together and then using their tails to groom each other. The Minccino with the fluffier tail will assert itself as the more dominant of the pair. These creatures also love shiny objects; they will obsessively polish any metal that they find until it sparkles in the sunlight. Herds of Minccino can be found crowded around broken glass discarded by hikers in the wild, attracted by the glimmering shards.

477

Minccino / Cinccino 

Minccino

Normal - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 4

Skills: -

Passives: Tickle (+1 Attack, +1 Defense), Cute Charm (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Infatuate the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)
Pound - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Double Slap - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Double Slap has -2 during Accuracy Check. Double Slap is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Encore - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. If the target can, it must use the last move it did for the next 3 rounds or until it no longer can.
Cinccino
Normal - Small (Size), Light (Weight)
Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6
Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 7
Skills: -
Passives: Tickle, Cute Charm, Skill Link (Your scatter moves have +2 during Accuracy Check.), Technician (When rolling damage, replace any rolled 1s or 2s with 3.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +6)
Sing - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Sing has -8 during Accuracy Check. On hit, all targets fall Asleep.
Wake-Up Slap - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. If WakeUp Slap is used against a Sleeping target, Wake-Up Slap deals 5d8 for damage instead, then cures the target of Sleep. If you choose not to roll damage while using WakeUp Slap, you do not need to roll an Accuracy Check.
Hyper Voice - Ranged(30ft beam) Normal Special Attack: 1/ day 3d12.

Cinccino fur is just as soft as that of Minccino, but it has a few additional properties that make it unique. Firstly, the hairs of Cinccino fur are arranged in such a way that they prevent static electricity from building up; additionally, the fur is also coated in oil that repels dust and water, which beads and slides right off their bodies. This can help them resist harm from other Pokťmon sometimes as well as slip out of dangerous situations even when cornered. Cinccino will coat their nests in this oil to keep them spotless, as they will not tolerate even the smallest speck of dust. Cinccino are very focused on cleanliness; they use their scarflike fur to wipe down surfaces before touching nearly anything.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Mountain / Woodlands

Evolution: Minccino

Shiny Stone Cinccino

Proficiencies: Elemental Attack E / Martial (Kicks) (Scatter Moves only) / Munitions (Scatter moves only) / Sound

478

Munchlax / Snorlax 

Munchlax

Normal - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 84 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 1 (5 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 4

Skills: -

Passives: Amnesia (+2 Special Defense), Defense Curl (+1 Defense), Screech (+2 Attack), Thick Fat (You take -4 damage from Fire-type attacks and Ice-type attacks.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +0)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Lick - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d8. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Rollout - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Rollout against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Rollout's damage.

Munchlax are very active Pokťmon. They spend almost all of their time walking or running around in search of food. They eat their own body weight in food every day, and they rarely chew food before swallowing. They hide leftovers in their fur to save for later, but often forget about them, leaving the morsels to rot on their bodies. Consequently, wild Munchlax frequently smell of decomposing refuse. They will still gladly consume these spoiled items, however, as they can eat just about anything without experiencing any ill effects thanks to their robust stomachs. A Munchlax sharing its possibly-rotten stored food with someone is a sure sign of trust. Despite how much they eat, Munchlax rarely are ever full; they constantly are looking for more to eat. Occasionally, they can be found wandering around houses; they will squeeze their way through small openings or windows to eat food left out for pets. Some people have even reported Munchlax raiding pantries, cabinets, and refrigerators in search of food, eating everything they can find in the process. Munchlax hate confrontation and will flee at the first sign of danger, though, so they are thankfully easy to scare off.

Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 20 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Mountains

Evolution: Munchlax

Snorlax

Snorlax

Normal - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 96 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 13

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 7

Skills: -

Passives: Amnesia, Defense Curl, Screech, Immunity (You are immune to getting Poisoned and Toxified.), Thick Fat

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +1)
Body Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed. Body Slam can Paralyze Electric-types.
Rest - Self Psychic Effect: 1/day. You may fall Asleep. If you do, you recover your HP to Max HP and are cured of all afflictions. You cannot attempt to wake up or be awoken naturally for 3 rounds.
Snore - Melee Normal Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. Snore can only be used while you're Asleep. You may move at half of your normal Speed if you use Snore during your action. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Proficiencies: Elemental Attack / Glutton / Normal Block (Snorlax) / Stampeding (Snorlax)

This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2. 479

Wild Snorlax only do two things: eat and sleep. They will Patrat live in large groups known as manors. They dig

only wake from their slumbers to eat, consuming up to

complex networks of underground tunnels with many

nine-hundred pounds of food in one sitting. Then, they

openings to the surface, allowing them to covertly travel

doze off again, steadily becoming lazier as well as larger as nearly anywhere without being exposed to aboveground

they grow and continue this cycle. Some Snorlax will

predators. Each opening of these network will always have

awaken as sporadically as only once a month. When they a Patrat standing on guard, no matter what time it is. Guard

are resting, they sleep so soundly that children will often Patrat are intensely alert, sometimes not blinking for

use their bellies as trampolines, since they do not ever stir minutes. In their attentiveness, however, most Patrat tend

when bounced on. Their digestive juices can dissolve nearly to ignore looking behind themselves, and thus are

anything, and their immune systems are hardy enough to vulnerable to attacks from the rear. Their great peripheral

allow them to consume moldy or mildly poisonous foods. Their rumbling stomachs are so loud that they can be mistaken for their cries. Waking sleeping Snorlax will turn these normally docile Pokťmon into aggressive attackers. Snorlax can occasionally be nuisances in urban areas, eating garbage and passing out in the middle of streets.

vision makes them quick to notice foes coming from the sides, however. Patrat will become anxious when even a single hole is left unguarded, and will refuse to leave their tunnels until an all-clear signal is given by every one of the guards. They wave their tails to communicate with others. They are able to store food in their cheek pouches to bring back to their nests; members of a manor will store their

food communally in one large pile.

480

Patrat / Watchog 

Patrat

Normal - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Stealth (can make stealth skill checks)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Keen Eye (Your accuracy checks cannot be negatively affected by foes.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Bide - Ranged(25ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Bide is a three-turn move. On the first and second turns, do nothing. On the third turn, release energy; all characters within range take damage equal to twice the damage you took since the first turn of Bide.

Watchog never blink or close their eyes, even when submerged underwater. They live in large groups and can go for days without sleep and can remain standing completely still for similar periods of time. Watchog are constantly on the lookout for danger. Members of a clan will arrange themselves so that they can see approaching foes from every angle. When Watchog spot trouble, their tails will stand straight on end and the fluorescent bands on their body along with their eyes will glow, both alerting their allies and unnerving approaching enemies; the initial flash of light has been known to temporarily blind attackers. Their friends will scramble back into their tunnels and shovel as many seeds as they can in their cheek pouches. Watchog have great night vision, on par with their vision in broad daylight.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Deserts / Fields / Savannas

Evolution: Patrat

Watchog

Proficiencies: Elemental Attack EF / Fangs

Watchog

Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Glow (can produce light), Stealth

Passives: Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Leer, Rototiller (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Analytic (When attacking a foe who has already acted this round, deal +4 damage.), Keen Eye

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Confuse Ray - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target becomes Confused.
Hypnosis - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Effect: 3/day. Hypnosis has -4 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is put Asleep.

481

Rattata / Raticate 

Rattata

Normal - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 18 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Stealth (can make stealth skill checks)

Passives: Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Run Away (+1 Speed)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +1, Effect +4)

Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.

Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Pursuit - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d6. Pursuit deals +6 damage to a target if they ended their turn further away from you during the start of their turn.

Raticate

Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Stealth, Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Focus Energy, Scary Face (+2 Speed), Tail Whip, Guts (While afflicted, your Attack is +2.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +6)

Hyper Fang - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Super Fang - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day. On hit, the target's current HP is halved.

Rattata are common Pokťmon, often found in the fields and urban areas of many regions. They live in large groups of 40 to 50 members, and are rarely separated; if one finds a Rattata dwelling in their home, it is certain that there are dozens more hiding around in the neighborhood as well. They can be a nuisance, as they eat nearly anything and are extremely quick, seemingly unable to stay still for long periods of time. If a Rattata locates food, it will call upon its group-mates to join it. They will then settle in the area and reproduce continuously. In addition to consuming large amounts of food, Rattata also pack a vicious bite. Their teeth never stop growing, so they must constantly gnaw on hard objects to whittle them down or risk starvation, unable to close their mouths. They often use manmade objects such as telephone poles for this purpose. All this together makes Rattata huge household pests.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Fields / Plains / Savannas / Urban

Evolution: Rattata

Raticate

Proficiencies: Dark / Elemental Attack EI / Fangs

Evolution Shift compatible with Rattata (Island) family (164)
482

Raticate remain just as much a nuisance to

homeowners, only more aggressive. Luckily, however, they

also live in smaller groups, as large groups of Rattata

Rufflet can be found in coniferous forests near wetlands.

generally split into groups of 8 to 10 or so upon evolution. Though they appear weak, Rufflet are in fact very

Like their pre-evolutions, Raticate must constantly whittle courageous and resilient. For the first few weeks of their

down their teeth. In the wild, they gnaw on rocks and logs lives, Rufflet are fed by their parents. Afterwards, however,

to keep them in prime condition, but urban Raticate often they are pushed out of their nests to forage for food,

choose to whittle on concrete and cinder walls of houses, a though they return afterwards. They use their strong talons

danger to many homes. Their whiskers provide them with to grasp and crack hard nuts and Berries as well as peck at

balance; if they are damaged or cut off, the

prey; they prefer meat and seafood, but they cannot always

coordination and speed of these Pokťmon are cut

obtain it easily. Their powerful legs and claws do enable

drastically. Their hind feet are adapted to swimming,

them to crack the carapaces of unfortunate prey, however.

allowing them to cross rivers. If a Raticate feels threatened, While on their own, they must fend for themselves against

it will stand on its hind legs and let out a shrill shriek, calling predators. Rufflet will fearlessly stand their ground against

its group-mates to join and defend it. The best way to

foes much stronger than themselves. They are even known

defend against Raticate in the home is to prevent Rattata to initiate battles with larger Pokťmon when unprovoked,

from invading in the first place before they evolve.

though they will often begin crying if they lose. Rufflet become stronger through this frequent fighting. As they

continue to grow, Rufflet will leave their nests for longer

and longer periods of time, until one day they simply do

not return.

483

Rufflet / Braviary 

Rufflet

Normal / Flying - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Flight (can fly)
Passives: Hone Claws (+2 Attack), Keen Eye (Your accuracy checks cannot be negatively affected by foes.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Fury Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Fury Attack has -2 during Accuracy Check. Fury Attack is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Wing Attack - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d8.
Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.

Braviary
Normal / Flying - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 60 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8
Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 14 Special Attack: 6
Skills: Flight, Guster (can produce wind)
Passives: Hone Claws, Tailwind (+2 Speed), Defiant (If a foe lowers any of your stats, you have +2 Attack until your lowered stats are returned to normal.), Keen Eye, Sheer Force (Your attacks that have additional effects that affect the target may deal +4 damage, but will not have those additional effects.)

Braviary are aggressive fighters, but they are always motivated by loyalty and kinship. They will battle opponents in spite of danger and pain in order to defend their loved ones. Scars are a sign of dedication among Braviary, and individuals with more front-facing scars are held in higher regard--however, those with many scars on their backs are mocked as cowards. When they hear the cry of a fellow Braviary in danger, or the cry of a Rufflet, they will swiftly and honorably attack the offenders, putting their lives on the line and showing off their bravery. Their talons are very strong and with some effort can dig into solid steel.

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +3, Effect +5)
Superpower - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Attack and Defense is -2 for 10 mins.
Brave Bird - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

Biology: Egg Group - Flying, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Wetlands / Tundra

Evolution: Rufflet

Braviary

Proficiencies: Fighting (Braviary) / Flying / Avian / Winged

Thrash - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. Thrash is a two -turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.

Evolution Shift compatible with Rufflet family (571)
484

Sentret / Furret 

Sentret

Normal - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 4

Skills: -

Passives: Defense Curl (+1 Defense), Run Away (+1 Speed)
Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)
Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.
Fury Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Fury Attack has -2 during Accuracy Check. Fury Attack is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Foresight - Self Normal Effect: At-Will. You can hit Ghosttypes with Normal and Fighting type moves as if they are not immune to those types of attacks for two mins.

Sentret are capable of walking both on two legs and on all fours, but they spend most of their time resting on their tails. Using powerful muscles in these appendages, Sentret can lift themselves up to scout out their surroundings. Their sensitive ears can pick up minute sounds, alerting them quickly to potential dangers. Being social Pokťmon, Sentret live in groups. Members take shifts on guard duty; at any given hour, there will be at least one Sentret keeping watch for a group. They are very nervous Pokťmon--upon the first sign of trouble, they will begin thumping their tails wildly and crying out to alert their allies. Sentret care closely for and are heavily dependent upon their friends. If a Sentret is separated from its group, it becomes unable to sleep, partly from loneliness and partly from the constant, instinctual need to have an ally on guard duty--without anyone to split their patrols with, lone Sentret feel compelled to stay up and keep watch indefinitely all by themselves until they simply collapse from sheer exhaustion.
Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Grasslands / Meadows / Woodlands

Furret

Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 5

Skills: -

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Amnesia (+2 Special Defense), Defense Curl, Keen Eye (Your accuracy checks cannot be negatively affected by foes.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +5)
Follow Me - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, all affected foes will only attack you until you are knocked out.
Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Slam has -2 during Accuracy Check.
Hyper Voice - Ranged(30ft beam) Normal Special Attack: 1/ day 3d12.

Evolution: Sentret

Furret

Proficiencies: Elemental Attack / Slashing

485

Furret tend to stray away from their social groups,

though they stay within the general area of their peers and Skitty live in the hollows of trees, though some strays often are seen meeting for gatherings with them. Instead of can be found wandering around cities as well. They are

groups, Furret choose to settle down, making nests in

easily distracted by moving objects, often following them

narrow burrows that only they can fit into. These burrows for long distances away from home. Urban Skitty

are often maze-like in order to confuse potential predators populations arose from lone Skitty following cars and

looking for their offspring. Furret mother their children by trucks into metropolises. They have a habit of chasing their

wrapping their long bodies around their nests, caring for own tails, running around in circles until they tire and

their young until they are old enough to join groups of their becomes dizzy. Many people find their behavior cute;

own. In battle, they are very flexible and agile. By squirming consequently, they are very popular pets. However, it is

around in every direction, they can easily confuse enemies difficult to earn the trust of a Skitty, as they are wary of

and escape with quick, precise dashes.

strangers. They will quickly warm up to anyone who

consistently supplies them with food and toys, though. In

battle, they will attempt to intimidate foes by puffing up

their tails and letting out squeaky growls. This often ends

up making them appear adorable rather than intimidating.

When two Skitty meet, they will immediately touch tails.

Once both are comfortable with one another, they will

begin to play games of tag by chasing each other's tails.

486

Skitty / Delcatty 

Skitty

Normal - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 4

Skills: -

.Passives: Charm (+1 Defense), Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Cute Charm (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Infatuate the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Attract - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Infatuated with you.
Disarming Voice - Ranged(10ft) Fairy Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense

Delcatty

Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Delcatty live life focusing solely on their own needs and desires. They have no set schedules, doing things whenever and wherever they please. For this reason, Delcatty do not have stationary nests, as they sleep wherever they feel like sleeping. As nocturnal Pokťmon, Delcatty roam around at night looking for food and shelter; no matter how hungry or tired they are, they will refuse to eat anything they consider vile or sleep anywhere they believe is dirty. They take their appearances very seriously, often spending hours grooming and cleaning themselves. They prefer avoiding confrontation. If they sense danger, they will simply walk away from the situation. Oftentimes, attackers are too shocked at their callousness to respond.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Urban

Evolution: Skitty

Moon Stone Delcatty

Proficiencies: Claws / Elemental Attack EI / Sound

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 6

Skills: -

Passives: Charm, Tail Whip, Cute Charm, Normalize (Attacks performed by you are treated as Normal-type attacks.), Wonder Skin (Your stats cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Wake-Up Slap - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. If WakeUp Slap is used against a Sleeping target, Wake-Up Slap deals 5d8 for damage instead, then cures the target of Sleep. If you choose not to roll damage while using WakeUp Slap, you do not need to roll an Accuracy Check.

Heal Bell - Ranged(10ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. You and all allies within range are cured of all afflictions.

Play Rough - Melee Fairy Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

487

Skwovet / Greedent 

Skwovet

Normal - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain)

Passives: Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Cheek Pouch (Whenever you consume a berry, you recover 10 HP in addition to any other effects.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Covet - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, steals the target's held item, if any.

Greedent

Normal - Medium (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 72 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Climber

Passives: Tail Whip, Cheek Pouch

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +1)
Bullet Seed - Ranged(10ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 1d4. Bullet Seed has -2 during Accuracy Check. Bullet Seed is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Super Fang - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day. On hit, the target's current HP is halved.
Rest - Self Psychic Effect: 1/day. You may fall Asleep. If you do, you recover your HP to Max HP and are cured of all afflictions. You cannot attempt to wake up or be awoken naturally for 3 rounds.

Skwovet are a perennial pest of Berry orchards around the globe. In areas where they are prolific, it is near impossible to shake a Berry tree without having to deal with an angry Skwovet. These hardy Pokťmon can tolerate a wide range of climates; they are well-insulated for cold climates thanks to their warm fur and the thick fat they obtain from constantly eating. Skwovet will always have Berries stuffed in their cheeks and will become quite distressed should they ever empty. They are not picky about flavors; from sweet to sour, bitter to spicy, Skwovet will eat any and all Berries they can find growing on trees. Though they prefer ripened Berries, they will not hesitate to nibble hard, unripe ones straight from the branch. Perhaps the only solace farmers can take when it comes to these voracious eaters is that they are extremely territorial about their food. Skwovet will not share their Berries with anyone else, so farms with a Skwovet problem will likely not have to deal with any other pests.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Forests / Orchards / Woodlands

Evolution: Skwovet

Greedent

Proficiencies: Fangs / Glutton

488

Greedent can wreak incredible havoc on Berry trees because of their compulsion to hoard uneaten Berries in their bushy tails. This means that they will take far more than they can eat, destroying more crops than even the most voracious Skwovet. To add salt to the wound, these slow-witted Pokťmon will commonly overstuff their tails and begin to drop Berries out of them without noticing. Farmers will wake up in the morning to see their Berries rotting on the ground, picked only to be left to waste. Greedent have sharp teeth that enable them to bite into hard-shelled and unripe Berries, so that even premature crops are not safe.

Spearow can fly very high and fast, but expend a lot of energy flapping their tiny wings to do so. Because of this, they can only fly for short distances. They flush out Bugtypes by flapping their wings in tall grass to create gusts. Spearow are highly aggressive and territorial, closely observing their land and letting out high-pitched shrieks that can be heard from over a quarter-mile away to alert fellow Spearow of potential dangers. Though territorial against other Pokťmon, Spearow are not solitary and will coexist with others of their kind. Their calls signal nearby Spearow to flock together and attack. Because they almost always attack in large flocks, Spearow can be very formidable foes despite their small size and individual weakness. Lone Spearow can be reckless when facing large foes, however. Flocks can be dangerous to unwary travelers, so trainers must always be cautious of Spearow cries while traveling through their territory. Farmers appreciate them, though, for clearing fields of pests.

489

Spearow / Fearow 

Spearow

Normal / Flying - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Leer (+1 Attack), Keen Eye (Your accuracy checks cannot be negatively affected by foes.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +1, Effect +3)

Peck - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Pursuit - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d6. Pursuit deals +6 damage to a target if they ended their turn further away from you during the start of their turn.

Fury Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Fury Attack has -2 during Accuracy Check. Fury Attack is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Fearow
Normal / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6 Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 10 Special Attack: 6 Skills: Flight Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Leer, Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Keen Eye, Sniper (When you land a critical hit, you deal an additional 8 damage.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +6)

Fearow are very territorial; luckily for travelers, though, they prefer to keep to themselves, only attacking those who draw too near to their nests or young. They enjoy flying, often spreading their large wings and soaring effortlessly through the air for up a day without landing; they can carry heavy loads in their talons in flight. When hunting, Fearow soar high up into the air. When they spot prey, they dive down below and attack with their long beaks. They use their narrow beaks to dig through soil or reach below the water to catch prey if needed. Because they are known to attack Pokťmon often viewed as "cute" and "popular," Fearow are often maligned in popular culture as wicked, heartless fighters. However, anyone who has ever raised a Fearow know that while wary and sometimes aggressive to strangers, they can also be very loyal and protective Pokťmon.

Aerial Ace - Melee Flying Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense.
Drill Peck - Melee Flying Attack: 3/day 3d10.
Drill Run - Melee Ground Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Drill Run is a critical hit.

Biology: Egg Group - Flying, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Badlands / Fields / Mountains

Evolution: Spearow

Fearow

Proficiencies: Flying / Avian / Winged

490

Stantler / Wyrdeer 

Stantler

Normal - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

.Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 10

Skills: -

Passives: Calm Mind (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense), Intimidate (+1 Defense), Sap Sipper (You are immune to Grass-type attacks. If you would be hit by a Grass-type attack, your Attack is +2 for 10 mins.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)
Stomp - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Jump Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d10. Jump Kick has -2 during Accuracy Check. If you miss, you lose HP equal to half of your Max HP.
Confuse Ray - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target becomes Confused.

Wyrdeer

At first glance, Stantler appear to be rather unremarkable Pokťmon. However, they hold odd power within their horns. These antlers are shaped like eyes, with the dark orbs inside resembling pupils. Staring at the orbs will cause one to feel inexplicably drawn towards them; onlookers can lose control of their bodies and simply collapse to the floor, mesmerized. Their antlers can subtly adjust the flow of light and air to create illusions of distorted reality. Stantler horns are seasonal; they are shed at the end of winter. They often graze on grass under snow in herds, crushing through any ice with their hooves.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Forests / Mountains / Tundra

Evolution: Stantler

Wyrdeer

Proficiencies: Psychic / Elemental Attack E / Kicks

Normal / Psychic - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 12

Skills: Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)

Passives: Calm Mind, Intimidate, Sap Sipper

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +6, Effect +3)

Megahorn - Melee Bug Attack: 1/day 5d12.

Thunderbolt - Ranged(30ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Psyshield Bash - Melee Psychic Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, your Defense and Special Defense are each raised +1 for 10 mins.

491

Wyrdeer are exceedingly rare prized companions that make life in the frigid north tenable. In addition to transporting people and goods alike across rugged terrain, Wyrdeer fur was treasured for its ability to retain heat. Skilled weavers gathered shed fur and fashioned it into coats, scarves, and other garments to keep people warm during dark nights and chilly winters. The black orbs at the bases of their horns emanate psychic energy. Like Stantler, Wyrdeer can use them to create illusions, but their heightened abilities allow them to distort space itself and erect invisible barriers. Wyrdeer often can be seen leading herds of young Stantler. They use their antlers like dowsing rods to seek safe pathways through dangerous lands, trotting at the forefront with their younger kin following close behind.

Stufful are very popular with their adorable appearances, clumsy waddling, and supremely plush fur. All of this belies the fact that Stufful are incredibly dangerous Pokťmon. Though they seem innocent, they absolutely despise being touched by others. They will flail their limbs about spastically when prodded. Stufful will only let their closest loved ones even begin to hug them. Since trash cans provide a steady food source for these Pokťmon, they often remain in metropolises despite the risk of being touched, posing danger to unwary passerby. The short tail-like appendage on their rears is a scent organ that releases odors to communicate with other Stufful; they seem to hate being touched here even more than they do anywhere else.

492

Stufful / Bewear 

Stufful

Normal / Fighting - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 5

Skills: -

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Cute Charm (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Infatuate the attacker.), Fluffy (If hit by a melee attack, you only take half the damage. If hit by a Fire-type attack, you take twice the damage.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Bide - Ranged(25ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Bide is a three-turn move. On the first and second turns, do nothing. On the third turn, release energy; all characters within range take damage equal to twice the damage you took since the first turn of Bide.

Though they seem benign, Bewear are one of the world's most dangerous Pokťmon. Warning signs, oftentimes broken, demarcate their habitat boundaries in many areas; some even forbid all but the most experienced trainers from entering. Bewear possess absolutely immense strength; what makes them dangerous, however, is that they seem to be unaware of their might. These Pokťmon swing their arms about absentmindedly as they lumber through forests, snapping trees in two as they go. Bewear are also very affectionate, showing their love by hugging. They hug with enough force to snap a human spine; indeed, this has historically been a not-uncommon fate of their trainers. Bewear learn new fighting techniques by watching people and Pokťmon train in the woods. Though their facial expressions won't change when angered, they will swing their arms about wildly as a warning before charging; this is universally considered a signal to start running away as fast as possible. After taking down prey, Bewear will tuck the carcasses under their arms and carry them back to their nests. Oddly, these Pokťmon detest having their noses touched.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Forests

Evolution: Stufful

Bewear

Flail - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 1d10. If you are at less than half of your Max HP, Flail has 1d20 for damage instead. If you are at less than 5 HP, Flail has 5d12 for damage instead.

Bewear

Normal / Fighting - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight) Hit Points: 72 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 14

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Strength (very strong)

Passives: Leer, Cute Charm, Fluffy, Unnerve (Foes within 25ft of you cannot consume food.)

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)
Bind - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 physical damage on its turns.
Thrash - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. Thrash is a two -turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.
Superpower - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Attack and Defense is -2 for 10 mins.

Proficiencies: Fighting / Stampeding (Bewear)

493

Taillow / Swellow 

Taillow

Normal / Flying - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Growl (+1 Defense), Guts (While afflicted, your Attack is +2.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +1, Effect +4)

Wing Attack - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d8.

Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.

Double Team - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. You create 3 copies of yourself. You may attack from any copy and copies may inhabit spaces up to 25 ft away from each other, though none can be more than 25 ft from any other copies or the original. If a copy is hit, it disappears and you take 1/4th of the damage it would have taken. If your copy is hit by a non-damaging attack the copy is dismissed and you are unaffected by the attack. If you are hit, all copies disappear.

Swellow

Normal / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 15 (75 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Flight

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Focus Energy, Growl, Guts, Scrappy (Your Normal-type and Fighting-type attacks can hit Ghost-type targets.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +7)

Taillow are famous for their gutsy spirits, never backing down no matter what the situation. This is true even from birth. Young Taillow leave their nests as soon as possible; the minute they can reach the closest branch from their nests, they fumble over to them and never return. They have been known to confront fearsome Pokťmon without flinching; even when they lose, they refuse to admit that their foes are stronger. Only a few things can break their spirits. Homesickness is one of them; because Taillow leave their nests at such a young age, they may be seen crying alone late at night, longing for their homes. The other is hunger--hungry Taillow will wail incessantly until they find food. Taillow prefer warm temperatures, migrating in search of suitable climates to escape colder seasons.
Biology: Egg Group - Flying, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Grasslands / Meadows

Air Slash - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. Air Slash has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Evolution: Taillow

Swellow

Proficiencies: Flying / Avian / Winged

Brave Bird - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

Reversal - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 1d10. If you are at less than half of your Max HP, Reversal has 1d20 for damage instead. If you are at less than 5 HP, Reversal has 5d12 for damage instead.

494

Swellow are graceful, often seen gliding in long, elegant

Tandemaus are invariably found in pairs; they always

arcs on warm spring winds. They circle grasslands and

appear together, live together, and eventually die together.

meadows in search of food. Using their keen eyesight, they Though many assume a Tandemaus consists of a male and

can spot the rustling of prey below, steeply and swiftly

a female, both halves are actually devoid of the standard

diving to catch prey in their sharp talons. Swellow are very gender differences that many of their relatives possess.

nimble; when they dive, they never miss their targets. They They can only be distinguished by a faint difference in

take great care of their glossy feathers, preening them

which halves of their torsos are darker in hue. Tandemaus

before each flight. By keeping them clean, they can prevent work as one in both fighting and foraging. When they find

dirt and other detritus from slowing them down while

food, they will always split it exactly down the middle

hunting. In flocks, Swellow will clean each other's feathers, between themselves. They use their sharp incisors to carve

particularly in areas that would be difficult for individuals to out pieces of wood, reeds, and stone to construct intricate

reach on their own. Swellow will dive briefly into water to nests that can withstand a wide variety of climates. Young

clean themselves, and will skim the surface of lakes with Tandemaus are constantly prancing about fields in search

their beaks open to drink; rarely will they land anywhere of raw materials. Skipping is their quick form of locomotion,

outside of their nests.

as it is difficult to run in tandem while holding hands. Once

their nests are constructed, they slow down considerably; it

is thought that this signals they are ready for evolution.

495

Tandemaus / Maushold 

Tandemaus

Normal - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Modular (consists of 2 parts), Stealth (can make stealth skill checks)

Passives: Baby-Doll Eyes (+1 Defense), Run Away (+1 Speed), Own Tempo (You are immune to being Confused)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)
Helping Hand - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. Target ally's next attack during this round will deal +1d20 damage.
Bullet Seed - Ranged(10ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 1d4. Bullet Seed has -2 during Accuracy Check. Bullet Seed is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Tidy Up - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Field Effect: 3/day. Any Hazards or Coats within range are destroyed. If you destroyed any Hazards or Coats, your Attack is +1 and your Speed is +1 for 10 mins.

Maushold

Normal - Tiny (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Mausfam (Maushold can have one to four tiny maus. Maushold that have 3 or 4 tiny maus are Small (Size)), Modular (consists of 3 to 6 parts), Stealth

Passives: Baby-Doll Eyes, Cheek Pouch (Whenever you consume a berry, you recover 10 HP in addition to any other effects.), Friend Guard (Allies within 25ft of you take -1d4 damage when attacked.), Technician (When rolling damage, replace any rolled 1s or 2s with 3.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +5)

Play Rough - Melee Fairy Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Attack is -1 for 10 mins.
Encore - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. If the target can, it must use the last move it did for the next 3 rounds or until it no longer can.
Population Bomb - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 1d4. Population Bomb is a Scatter attack. Up to 10 attacks.

The transition from Tandemaus to Maushold is unclear. Two--or occasionally just one, three, or four--additional, smaller members appear suddenly alongside the original two, constituting an evolution. Strictly speaking, it is unknown whether the individuals are even of the same family; research reveal that they all are genetic clones of one another, including the original couple. The larger, original two members of a Maushold protect the smaller members, even in battle. In sticky situations, however, the newer members will pitch in as well. When walking, the small members will hold onto the tails of the larger ones so as to not fall behind. Maushold continue to elaborate upon their nests after evolving, constructing different rooms that serve different purposes. For instance, one chamber will be used solely for sleeping, while another will be where the smaller individuals play. Some say that Maushold are effectively immortal, as when the larger individuals pass on, the two smaller ones will grow, and two new members will appear. Of course, this will only happen when no one is watching, so this urban legend has never been confirmed.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 5 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Urban

Evolution: Tandemaus

Maushold

Proficiencies: Cutesy / Munition

496

Wooloo / Dubwool 

Wooloo

Normal - Medium (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 4

Skills: -

Passives: Defense Curl (+1 Defense), Run Away (+1 Speed), Fluffy (If hit by a melee attack, you only take half the damage. If hit by a Fire-type attack, you take twice the damage.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Headbutt - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Double Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 2d8. Double Kick is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.
Take Down - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.

Wooloo are a common sight on farms and pastures. They are herd Pokťmon that will imitate the actions of their herd leaders or trainers. Wooloo dislike conflict; if a fight breaks out, they will tuck in their legs and roll away. Farmers take advantage of this trait by corralling their tumbling livestock into pens. Wooloo have thick, shock-absorbent wool that is said to be able to cushion them from a tumble off a cliff. This wool is also commonly used to knit warm-weather clothing and carpets because of its great strength and insulation. Wooloo grow back their wool quickly; a fully-shorn individual will regrow all of its wool in as little as three months. Wooloo must be shorn periodically, as they will grow so much wool over time that it will render them unable to move.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Fields / Grasslands

Evolution: Wooloo

Dubwool

Proficiencies: Kicks

Dubwool

Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 13 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 6

Skills: -

Passives: Cotton Guard (+3 Defense), Run Away, Fluffy, Steadfast (When you are Stunned, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +5)

Counter - Melee Fighting Effect: 1/day. Counter is used as a Reaction. After an enemy hits you with a melee Attack move that deals damage, use Counter to deal exactly twice the damage to the enemy that you received. Do not apply weakness or resistances.

Double Edge - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

Reversal - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 1d10. If you are at less than half of your Max HP, Reversal has 1d20 for damage instead. If you are at less than 5 HP, Reversal has 5d12 for damage instead.

497

Yungoos have sharp teeth that can crush bone with little

Dubwool have two large horns that they use to attract others of their species. The horns are backwards facing and are fragile so must protect them during conflict. Dubwool primarily rely on their thick wool to protect them. Their wool does wonders in this regard, Dubwool wool is unexpectedly bouncy, deflecting physical attacks right off of itself. Fabric knitted from their wool acts much like a trampoline. Their spots also make it more difficult to shear these Pokťmon without mixing the colors together and creating a mottled final product. Thus, most Dubwool on farms are likely kept around for mating purposes, as it's usually more of a hassle to shear and process them than

effort. They also possess strong stomachs with powerful digestive acids that make quick work of any meal; these stomachs take up much of their bodies, and Yungoos must search for food almost constantly in order to stay satiated. To hunt, Yungoos stake out a particular route and then patrol it back and forth for prey. They do not stray from their paths, which they try to set in areas safe from larger predators. This is because Yungoos do not nest and are strictly diurnal; once dusk arrives, these Pokťmon will simply collapse onto the ground where they are standing and doze off. They strongly prefer live prey and will only scavenge as an absolute last resort.

their wool ends up being worth.

498

Yungoos / Gumshoos 

Yungoos

Normal - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 3 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Stealth (can make stealth skill checks)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Stakeout (When you attack a target who has just joined the encounter since your last turn, you deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +1, Effect +2)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Pursuit - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d6. Pursuit deals +6 damage to a target if they ended their turn further away from you during the start of their turn.
Mud-Slap - Ranged(5ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 1d6. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.

Gumshoos hunting patterns are the exact reverse of those of Yungoos; instead of patrolling routes in search of prey, Gumshoos wait in hiding near the routes of their victims before leaping out to surprise them. Naturally, it takes them some time in order to learn about their prey, so these Pokťmon will often go days without food as they hone in on their targets. Gumshoos will spend whole days simply watching their victims without striking. These Pokťmon are tenacious and will stick to a single target until they succeed. One trait these Pokťmon do have in common with Yungoos is that they are also diurnal. When the sun sets, Gumshoos will fall asleep right where they stand, exhausted from a day's worth of keeping watch.

Gumshoos

Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Stealth

Passives: Leer, Scary Face (+2 Speed), Adaptability (Moves that are the same type as you deal +4 damage.), Stakeout, Strong Jaw (Your biting attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Grasslands

Evolution: Yungoos

Gumshoos

Proficiencies: Dark / Fangs / Stampeding (Gumshoos)

Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Hyper Fang - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Thrash - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. Thrash is a two -turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.

499

Zigzagoon / Linoone 

Zigzagoon

Normal - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Stealth (can make stealth skill checks)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Tail Whip (+1 Attack)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +1, Effect +3)

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Mud Sport - Melee Ground Effect: At-Will. Put a Mud Coat on the target or yourself. The Coat has the following ability: Reduce damage from Electric attacks that hit you by 10. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

Pin Missile - Ranged(10ft) Bug Attack: At-Will 1d4. Pin Missile has -2 during Accuracy Check. Pin Missile is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Linoone

Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Stealth, Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Growl, Rototiller (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Tail Whip, Quick Feet (While afflicted, your Speed is +2.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +5)

Headbutt - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.

Double Edge - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

Zigzagoon, as their names suggest, tend to travel in zigzag fashions, wandering left and right as they explore their surroundings. This is largely due to their extremely curious natures; Zigzagoon have the urge to examine almost everything around them, walking back and forth as they attempt to catch glimpses of all of their surroundings. Oftentimes, they will use their keen senses of smell to locate items hidden in the grass, holding their noses to the ground and sniffing as they zigzag towards concealed objects. Because of this, Zigzagoon trails and footprints are very easy to identify. Their hairs are very bristly; they will rub their backs against the bark of trees to mark their territories. As omnivores, Zigzagoon will gladly consume most food that they come across. Zigzagoon dislike fighting and will flee when intimidated to avoid conflict. When cornered, they will play dead in hopes of being left alone by their attackers.
Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Fields / Grasslands / Woodlands
Evolution: Zigzagoon Linoone
Proficiencies: Normal Block

Evolution Shift compatible with Zigzagoon (Urban) family (148)
500

Linoone dash in straight lines. They always run at full speed and can only turn at exact right angles. Additionally, they must come to full stops before turning. Consequently, paths with gentle curves are rather challenging for these Pokťmon. They rely primarily on surprise to capture prey; though they are indeed fast, their inability to turn makes it easy for targets to escape should they notice Linoone before being attacked. Linoone are also surprisingly adept swimmers, capable of leaping into the water mid-charge to capture aquatic prey. They have an affinity for round objects, which they will store in their expandable cheek pouches to take back to their nests. They hoard these objects in secret stashes.

These rare Zorua were driven out of their homelands by people who feared them for their illusory abilities. They were unable to survive in the harsh, foreign terrain and perished. Still, their vengeful souls lived on. Like some other Ghost-types, Zorua draw power from fear. The long fur on their heads, necks, and tails emanate spiritual energy that they use to craft illusions. Zorua use their mirages to scare people and Pokťmon to siphon energy from their resulting fear. It is said that this energy is made of pure spite, dying the tips of their white fur red. However, some believe that channeling these feelings into illusions helps the Pokťmon keep their emotions in check by literally venting their malice into the air. Zorua are rarely seen without their evolutions nearby. Such close friends and family are the only ones who escape their ire. Lone Zorua seem to be unable to control their illusions, perhaps because their loneliness and resentment is so great that the feelings force themselves out into the surrounding air.

. 501

Zorua / Zoroark (Icy Mountain) 

Zorua (Icy Mountain)

Normal / Ghost - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Stealth (can make stealth skill checks)

Passives: Illusion (As a free action, you may change your appearance to look like any Pokťmon you have interacted with within the past hour. You may not appear as a Pokťmon more than twice your size and the illusion is dropped when you are hit by an attack.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)
Scratch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Shadow Sneak - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 2d6. Shadow Sneak has Priority.
Swift - Ranged(20ft) Normal Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.

Zoroark (Icy Mountain)
Normal / Ghost - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)
Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6
Speed: 13 (65 ft.) Attack: 12 Special Attack: 15
Skills: Stealth
Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Fake Tears (+2 Special Attack), Hone Claws (+2 Attack), Illusion
Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +7, Effect +6)
Shadow Claw - Melee Ghost Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Shadow Claw is a critical hit.
Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.
Bitter Malice - Melee Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.

These white-fur Zoroark are feared by all. Their appearances are so ghastly that they are often described as looking the embodiments of death itself. The tendrils of fur that sprout from their bodies writhe as if they have minds of their own. It is said they radiate pure, concentrated spite against the world itself, dying their tips red. These Pokťmon harness this energy not to cloak themselves like their relatives, but rather to conjure terrifying illusions that are powerful enough to inflict physical harm on their targets. Zoroark are so consumed with resentment that they tear their own bodies apart with the strength of their attacks. When they summon particularly powerful illusions, the immense surges of energy coursing through their bodies lacerate them from within. This pain only serves to further intensify their malice. It is said that their most powerful mirages can drive people and Pokťmon mad from sheer terror. Despite being incredibly hostile towards most beings, they do show intense compassion for their friends and family. They are commonly observed protecting young Zorua, and it is said a trainer that is able to earn the trust of a Zoroark will have a partner for life.

Evolution Shift compatible with Zorua family (170)
502

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Mountain

Evolution: Zorua (Icy Mountain)

Zoroark (Icy Mountain)

Proficiencies: Ghost / Normal Block / Tricky

503

Audino 

Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 6

Skills: -
Passives: Healer (After acting, you may roll 1d20. On 16 or higher, any adjacent allies are cured of all afflictions.), Regenerator (When returned to a Poke Ball, you recover to Max HP after being stored for 1 hour.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Refresh - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. Target an ally or yourself. Target is cured of all afflictions.

Audino have one of the most acute senses of hearing in the Pokťmon world. By touching the feelers on their ears to objects, these Pokťmon can pick up even the smallest sound waves; because of this, Audino are common sights in hospitals and Pokťmon Centers, where they are trained to use their feelers as stethoscopes to detect irregularities in the heartbeats of patients. Their hearing is so advanced that they can also use their feelers to assess other aspects of an individual's health, including blood pressure, breathing, and digestion. Even without using their feelers, their hearing is still superb, being as sensitive as many artificial radars. Audino are rarely seen in the wild, as they are shy Pokťmon that retreat and hide when they hear someone approaching--considering their extraordinary aural abilities, this means that they almost always are hiding from potential enemies.

Attract - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Infatuated with you.

Heal Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or yourself. The target is healed HP equal to half of the target's Max HP.

Biology: Egg Group - Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Forests / Urban
Proficiencies: Elemental Attack / Healer
Bouffalant are short-tempered Pokťmon that have the tendency to charge at the slightest provocation. They can be found roaming plains and savannas in herds. Bouffalant herds are territorial; they will break into stampedes when intruders draw near as they all attempt to charge at the invaders at once. The thick tuft of fur on Bouffalant heads are incredibly shock-absorbent, allowing it to headbutt with enough force to harm foes without feeling any significant knockback. This fur is also a symbol of dominance among Bouffalant. Individuals with the largest and most luxurious head fur are the first to graze if food is scarce. Interestingly, these Pokťmon also respond to similar-looking hair among other beings, including humans. Herds charging at travelers have been known to suddenly stop upon noticing that one of the visitors has a particularly voluminous afro.

504

Bouffalant 

Castform 

Normal - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 4

Skills: -

Passives: Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Scary Face (+2 Speed), Swords Dance (+2 Attack), Reckless (Your attacks that damage yourself on hit, deal +4 damage.), Sap Sipper (You are immune to Grass-type attacks. If you would be hit by a Grass-type attack, your Attack is +2 for 10 mins.), Soundproof (You are immune to soundbased attacks.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)

Head Charge - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.

Megahorn - Melee Bug Attack: 1/day 5d12.

Thrash - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. Thrash is a two -turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.

Normal - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Flight (can fly), Guster (can produce wind)

Passives: Forecast (Your appearance and type changes with the weather. In Hailing, Hazy, or Misty weather, Castform is Ice-type. In Raining weather, Castform is Water-type. In Sandstorming weather, Castform is Rock-type. In Sunny weather, Castform is Fire-type. If in multiple kinds of weather, you choose which weather affects your type.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Powder Snow - Ranged(5ft burst) Ice Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.

Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Grasslands / Plains
Proficiencies: Horned / Stampeding

Biology: Egg Group - Fairy / Amorphous, Egg Hatch Rate 13 Days, Diet - Ergovore / Glacievore, Habitat - Urban Plant
Proficiencies: Electric / Fire / Ice / Water / Weather

505

Castform alter their form based on the temperature and humidity of their surroundings. Changes in the weather alter their cellular structure. In sunny weather, they become hot, dry Fire-types that resemble the sun; in rain, they become wet, soft, and slippery Water-types that exude liquid when touched and look like rain clouds; in hail or snow, they become cold Ice-types with partially-frozen bodies and appear as snow clouds. In temperate weather, they revert to their Normal-type forms. They even change into a Rock-type dust cloud in sandstorms. Their moods also depend somewhat on the weather. Castform tend to be happy if it is bright outside, gloomy if it is cloudy, and irritable if it is stormy, for example. They can harness the power of the atmosphere, utilizing their variable typing. Their transformations seem to be involuntary and instead depend on how the weather affects the configuration of their molecules. Castform were genetically engineered in a lab and so are very rare to encounter in the wild.

Chatot 

Normal / Flying - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Big Pecks (Your Defense cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.), Keen Eye (Your accuracy checks cannot be negatively affected by foes.), Tangled Feet (While you are confused, any foe's attacks made against you have -1 during accuracy check.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +4)
Taunt - Ranged(20ft) Dark Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target may only use attacks that target you or your allies for 1 min.

Chatter - Ranged(10ft burst) Flying Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Confused.

Uproar - Ranged(20ft burst) Normal Special Attack: 1/day 3d10. Uproar is a three-turn move. On each of its turns, you can move normally, then roll Uproar's accuracy check and damage. Sleeping Pokťmon within range of Uproar are awoken and Pokťmon cannot go to Sleep within Uproar's range.

Biology: Egg Group - Flying, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omniivore, Habitat - Fields / Forests / Mountains / Urban
Chatot are very talented in mimicking the sounds of oth- Proficiencies: Flying / Avian / Sound / Winged ers. Their tongues are structurally similar to those of humans, enabling them to repeat nearly any word that they hear. They can also copy the cries of another Pokťmon. Chatot use this ability to avoid predators and fool prey; by mimicking their targets, they can pretend to be members of the same species and thus avoid detection. Chatot have great memories and can remember any sound they hear. They add these noises to their repertoires, which they can pull out of to construct and sing patchwork melodies. They swing their tails back and forth like metronomes keep time. If many Chatot gather together, they will learn and repeat whatever the first one says until they all are saying the same thing. These intelligent Pokťmon can learn by observation and experience; for example, they may scare foes away by copying the cries of their predators, or draw prey closer by producing corresponding mating calls.

506

Ditto 

Normal - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Amorphous (can change their body into a liquid-like state), Inflatable (can expand), Shrinkable (can shrink)
Passives: Imposter (As a free action you may use Transform.), Limber (You are immune to being Paralyzed.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)

Ditto have the unique ability to see another Pokťmon and restructure its own DNA and molecular structure of them to turn into near-perfect replicas. However, they cannot maintain their disguises while laughing. Though they can work from memory, they often get details wrong while doing so--their eyes will remain the same and they won't be able to use any special moves in their from-memory forms. Individual Ditto may also have their own strengths and weaknesses when it comes to transforming into certain things. In rare cares, it's even been seen that a Ditto can

Transform - Ranged(25ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. You transform into a copy of the target changing all of your stats except for HP. You copy its stats, skills, and passives. You can use any of the target's moves. While transformed, you lose access to your regular moves, skills, passives, and biology. Except for stats, this information is not provided to you. Transform may not target Legendary Pokťmon. Transform lasts for 2 hours or until Ditto chooses to change back as an action. Transform fails if used by anything but a Ditto.

maintain a human form for a short while. Their adaptability

has allowed them to live in a variety of habitats, but they

generally stay near humans for unknown reasons. When

Ditto sleep, they morph into rocks to avoid detection. Due Biology: Egg Group - Ditto, Diet - Variable, Habitat - Varia-

to their DNA-copying abilities, Ditto can breed with any-

ble

thing that can reproduce, other than themselves.

Proficiencies: No moves from Any

507

Drampa 

Normal / Dragon - Huge (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 14

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Berserk (While below half HP, you have +2 Special Attack.), Cloud Nine (As a free action you may deplete one use of Defog and use Defog.), Sap Sipper (You are immune to Grass-type attacks. If you would be hit by a Grass-type attack, your Attack is +2 for 10 mins.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +7, Effect +2)
Dragon Breath - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: AtWill 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Drampa are peaceful, solitary creatures that live high up in the mountains. Many dwell at altitudes over 10,000 feet above sea level, where plant life can no longer survive. These herbivores descend to the feet of their mountains to gather Berries every day at dawn. They eat just enough to fuel their next climbs back up, taking a few Berries with them. Drampa are friendly with people, especially children. They will share their spare Berries with travelers, but they save the sweetest and juiciest ones for kids. Drampa will go out of their way to visit mountainside towns and play with the children living there, bringing gifts of Berries. They are often sighted in parks and near schools in the morning for this reason. Though they are usually peaceful creatures, Drampa will go berserk when children near them are in danger. They will also come to the defense of children that are being bullied by older ones. Mountain communities often have patron Drampa who visit the same area every day and get to know the inhabitants. These Drampa are beloved by children and parents alike.

Extrasensory - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Fly - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Fly is a two-turn move. On the first turn, fly up to 40 ft straight up. On the second turn, fly up to your movement speed +40 ft, then you can roll Fly's Accuracy Check and damage.

Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 10

Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Mountains

Proficiencies: Dragon / Psychic (Attacks) / Elemental Attack / Weather

Farfetch'd are almost never seen without their leeks. They use them to do almost everything, from defending themselves against predators to building their nests. They

protect the fields in which these plants grow with their

lives, and will often fight with each other for choice stalks.

Their wings have adapted to be more finger-like to enable

them to grasp leeks, though some prefer hold them in their

beaks instead. In dire emergencies, Farfetch'd may eat their

own leeks. They will begin search endlessly for new ones

immediately afterward. Farfetch'd are surprisingly adept in

water, thanks to their webbed feet, and can sometimes be

found swimming in ponds.

508

Farfetch'd 

Normal / Flying - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Flight (can fly)
Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Swords Dance (+2 Attack), Defiant (If a foe lowers any of your stats, you have +2 Attack until your lowered stats are returned to normal.), Inner Focus (You are immune to being Stunned.), Keen Eye (Your accuracy checks cannot be negatively affected by foes.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)
Fury Cutter - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Fury Cutter against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Fury Cutter's damage.
Night Slash - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Night Slash is a critical hit.
Air Slash - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. Air Slash has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Biology: Egg Group - Flying / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Grasslands
Proficiencies: Flying / Avian / Slashing / Winged

Furfrou 

Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Tracker (can follow scents)
Passives: Cotton Guard (+3 Defense), Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Fur Coat (If hit by a move using the Attack stat, you only take half the damage you would take.)
Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +5)
Headbutt - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Sucker Punch - Melee Dark Attack: 1/day 3d8. Sucker Punch is used as a Reaction. When you are a target of a melee move, use Sucker Punch to attack the attacker before the enemy rolls their Accuracy Check against you. You must still roll an accuracy check for Sucker Punch.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Urban
Proficiencies: Elemental Attack E / Fangs

Evolution Shift compatible with Farfetch'd (Massive Leek) family (255)
509

Furfrou are well-known for their thick and luxurious fur, which is so dense that it softens the blows of most physical attacks; Furfrou sometimes don't even feel lighter hits because of how tightly-packed their fur is. The voluminous quality of Furfrou fur also makes it easy to groom and style. In modern times, many upper-class trainers take their Furfrou to salons to get their fur trimmed and colored into a variety of ornate designs. The Pokťmon themselves seem to enjoy the treatment; the trimming removes some of the heavy fur from their bodies and makes them more agile, though they will only allow trusted individuals to trim them. Additionally, Furfrou are often considered haughty Pokťmon that take great pride in their physical appearances.

Kangaskhan 

Normal - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 66 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 4

Skills: -

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Early Bird (You roll twice during checks to wake from Sleep and use the higher result.), Inner Focus (You are immune to being Stunned.), Scrappy (Your Normal-type and Fighting-type attacks can hit Ghost-type targets.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)

Comet Punch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Comet Punch has -2 during Accuracy Check. Comet Punch is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Mega Punch- Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8.

Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Monster, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Badlands / Jungles
Proficiencies: Bruiser / Elemental Attack / Fangs / Punches
Kangaskhan carry their young in stomach pouches. A Kangaskhan will keep its child in its pouch until it is three months old, at which point it will be able to hunt for itself and will rapidly grow to a similar size of its parent. Kangaskhan tend to produce another egg to hatch and then raise when their young leaves. In the meantime, Kangaskhan are very protective of their babies, attacking anyone who they believe may be endangering them. They will give their lives for their children; it is said that the only time they cry is when their children leave for good. Kangaskhan will only let their young out of their pouches to play when they are certain there are no dangers around. Baby Kangaskhan are never alone, though, even when playing; their mothers will keep close watch of them from behind trees. Drawing too close to a playing infant Kangaskhan will spur its mother to defend it. When mother Kangaskhan make movements, their babies may imitate their actions. This mimicry is how the children learn to behave when alone. Oddly, Kangaskhan always sleep standing up, a reflex that allows them to rest with their babies still in their pouches.

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 510

Kecleon 

Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 12

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain), Invisibility (can turn invisible), Stealth (can make stealth skill checks)

Passives: Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Color Change (Whenever

you are attacked, your type is changed to the same type as

the attack after taking damage and effects for 5 mins.), ProKecleon are famed for their ability to change their body tean (You may change your types to the same type as an at-

coloration in order to camouflage into virtually any environ- tack you are making while making it for 10 mins.)

ment. There is one caveat to this amazing ability, howeverthe red bands on their bellies cannot change with the rest

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

of them. Still, despite this shortcoming, their ability to blend Shadow Sneak - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 2d6. Shadow

in nearly seamlessly into their surroundings is immensely Sneak has Priority.

useful to them for both hunting and avoiding predators. They can essentially turn invisible at a moment's notice, making detection extremely difficult for predators who rely

Feint Attack - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense.

primarily on their senses of sight. When hunting, Kecleon Ancient Power - Ranged(10ft) Rock Special Attack: 1/day

blend into foliage and wait patiently for prey to wander by. 2d8. On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special

Then, they lash out their long, sticky tongues to capture

Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour.

victims. Kecleon also change color based on their moods

and health; what hue signifies what emotion can vary between individuals, though darker shade tends to correspond to healthier individuals. Their true colors can be re-

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Monster, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Fields / Forests / Jungles

vealed by startling them, as they briefly drop their disguises Proficiencies: Dark / Ghost / Normal Block

when they lose focus. Their reflective scales constantly re-

act to harm by absorbing and converting Kecleon to be less

susceptible to future attacks.

511

Komala 

Normal - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 8

Skills: -

Passives: Defense Curl (+1 Defense), Comatose (You are always Asleep but can still act as if you aren't. You are also immune to other afflictions.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +4, Effect +3) Rollout - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Rollout against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Rollout's damage. Yawn - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target falls Asleep after its next turn. Wood Hammer - Melee Grass Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.
Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Forests Proficiencies: Stampeding

Komala are born asleep, live asleep, and pass asleep; these creatures have never been observed while awake. Despite their perpetual slumbers, however, Komala seem hazily aware of their surroundings; they seem to process outside stimuli within their dreams, as some sounds and physical touches register noticeably in their brain wave patterns. They exhibit expressions on their faces based on what they are dreaming about. When these Pokťmon are attacked, they will begin to flail about in the general direction that they sense danger. Komala are given a log pillow by their parents when they are born. These logs act as security blankets, and these Pokťmon will cling onto to them tightly. They are unable to sleep well without them, thrashing about wildly in their sleep.

Miltank are common on farms and ranches, where they are raised for their highly nutritious milk. Because Miltank milk contains so many vitamins, nutrients, and minerals, it is often touted as a cure-all drink for the sick. Miltank can produce over five gallons of milk a day. Their milk has a naturally rich and sweet taste, richer and sweeter when sourced from Miltank raised in rich pastures, and is often made into yogurt for those who cannot consume it naturally. It should be noted that consuming too much Miltank milk in a short period of time can result in an upset stomach. Curiously, when around young kids or Pokťmon, Miltank will produce more milk than usual. Farmers use this to their advantage, opening up their farms as petting zoos and encouraging parents to take their kids to visit.
512

Miltank 

Tauros 

Normal - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 4

Normal - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight) Hit Points: 48 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 7 Speed: 13 (65 ft.) Attack: 10 Special Attack: 4

Skills: Genetic Relation (can breed to produce any of the Tauros species)

Skills: Genetic Relation (can breed to produce Miltank), Strength (very strong)

Passives: Defense Curl (+1 Defense), Sap Sipper (You are immune to Grass-type attacks. If you would be hit by a Grasstype attack, your Attack is +2 for 10 mins.), Scrappy (Your Normal-type and Fighting-type attacks can hit Ghost-type targets.), Thick Fat (You take -4 damage from Fire-type attacks and Ice-type attacks.)
Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +5)
Stomp - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Rollout - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Rollout against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Rollout's damage.
Milk Drink - Melee Normal Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or yourself. The target is healed HP equal to half of the target's Max HP.

Passives: Intimidate (+1 Defense), Scary Face (+2 Speed), Anger Point (When hit by a critical hit, raise Attack +6 for 10 mins.), Sheer Force (Your attacks that have additional effects that affect the target may deal +4 damage, but will not have those additional effects.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +6)
Horn Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8.
Swagger - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.
Thrash - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. Thrash is a two -turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Grasslands / Plains
Proficiencies: Elemental Attack EI / Stampeding

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Grasslands / Plains
Proficiencies: Elemental Attack / Stampeding

Evolution Shift compatible with Tauros (Aqua Breed), Tauros (Blaze Breed) (273), Tauros (Combative) (273)
513

Oranguru 

Normal / Psychic - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 12

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Intelligence (very smart), Telekinetic (can move things with their mind), Telepath (can read minds)

Passives: Calm Mind (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense),

Nasty Plot (+1 Special Attack), Inner Focus (You are immune

to being Stunned.), Symbiosis (You can pass held items to

allies within 10ft as a free action.), Telepathy (Your allies

within 25ft do not harm you when the ally is using attacks

Tauros live in large herds on plains. They enjoy being

that have an area of effect.)

enraged and will sometimes whip themselves with their

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)

own tails to anger themselves before stampeding. They also whip themselves during battles to increase their fighting spirits. They headbutt each other and lock horns to test their own strength, taking pride in scars gained from

Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

sparring. If Tauros cannot find any sparring partners, they will ram into trees and knock them down out of boredom.

Zen Headbutt - Melee Psychic Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is

The strongest Tauros of a herd is its leader and protector. Stunned.

Leaders must frequently defend their titles by butting head with challengers; as such, they usually will have the longest, thickest, and most-scarred horns of the herd. Tauros only

Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

charge in straight lines. Once they start running, they will

not stop until they hit something. Despite their aggressiveness, Tauros are herbivores that graze on grass and other plants. Domesticated Tauros are considerably calmer than

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Mountains / Jungles

their wild counterparts but are still quick to anger.

Proficiencies: Psychic / Elemental Attack E /Tricky

514

Oranguru are solitary Pokťmon that dwell deep in the canopies of rainforests. These mysterious creatures spend much of their time meditating in silence. Oranguru are very intelligent and craft tools and medicines with regularity. They assemble their fans by binding leave together with their own fur. Young or injured Pokťmon will visit benevolent Oranguru for food and medicine, and Oranguru will similarly stop to treat injured creatures they come across. They don't get along well with others of their kind, engaging in intellectual battles of wits when encountering one another to prove superiority and territorial claims. Shockingly, Oranguru have proven able to learn how to manipulate human inventions like Potions all on their own.

Smeargle 

Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 2

Special Attack: 2

Skills: -
Passives: Own Tempo (You are immune to being Confused.), Technician (When rolling damage, replace any rolled 1s or 2s with 3.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +1, Effect +4)

Sketch - Ranged(25ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. You permanently learn the target's last-used attack. Sketch can not target moves that only target the user and can not copy legendary attacks. If Sketch is used to learn a Move when you already know 6 Moves, the new move replaces Sketch. Sketch fails if used by anything but a Smeargle.

Sketch - Ranged(25ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. You permanently learn the target's last-used attack. Sketch can not target moves that only target the user and can not copy legendary attacks. If Sketch is used to learn a Move when you already know 6 Moves, the new move replaces Sketch. Sketch fails if used by anything but a Smeargle.

Sketch - Ranged(25ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. You perma-

Smeargle live alone, but do maintain groups of com-

nently learn the target's last-used attack. Sketch can not

rades; comrade Smeargle will pass through each other's

target moves that only target the user and can not copy

territories, share details of food source locations with each legendary attacks. If Sketch is used to learn a Move when

other, and even paint each other's bodies for fun. Their tails you already know 6 Moves, the new move replaces

secrete a colorful, viscous fluid that they use to paint trees, Sketch. Sketch fails if used by anything but a Smeargle.

marking their domains in this manner. Different Smeargle

have paint of different colors; the hue is determined by a variety of factors, including genetics, diet, and environment. Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Smeargle born around the same time in the same area will Herbivore, Habitat - Forests / Urban

become comrades with one another. These groups remain Proficiencies: No moves from Any close for life, though they will separate and claim their own

territories upon reaching adulthood. Before Smeargle leave

their groups, their comrades will paint footprint markings

on their backs; if they ever meet again, they will be able to

distinguish each other by the pattern. Smeargle can paint

over five-thousand different kinds of brush strokes with

their tails. When inspired, Smeargle unleash a component

within themselves to permanently alter how their ink

works. Sometimes, the ink will change to become incendi-

ary, electroconductive, or alter temperatures into the nega-

tive. Smeargle hold within them such potential, constantly

looking for a true inspiration to hold onto forever.

515

Spinda 

Normal - Medium (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 6

Skills: -

Passives: Own Tempo (You are immune to being Confused.), Tangled Feet (When Own Tempo prevents you from becoming confused, any foe's attacks made against you have -1 during accuracy check for the remainder of combat. *This ability is different than usual for Spinda.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Feint Attack - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense.

Squawkabilly are most well known for their intense, color-based rivalries. Flock territorial dynamics are infamously volatile, and can change at the drop of a hat. They have

Psybeam - Ranged(15ft beam) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day been most well-studied in Paldea, where green Squawkabil-

3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the ly are the most numerous. Their flocks are constantly chal-

target is Confused.

lenged by blue flocks, the second-most numerous color.

Teeter Dance - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, all targets are Confused.

Rounding out the varieties are the scrappy yellow flocks, who are known for fighting viciously in close-quarters and being particularly hostile. Lastly, the white flocks are the

rarest. However, while green Squawkabilly blend in well in

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Fields / Mountains

forested areas, white Squawkabilly are much betteradapted to living in towns and cities. Squawkabilly flocks will chase all other colors out of their territories, and even

Proficiencies: Dark / Punches

sometimes drive out other bird Pokťmon as well. They can

be quite aggressive when in groups, though lone ones are

meek and sometimes despondent. Squawkabilly have

Spinda cannot walk in strong senses of community and will defend one another

straight lines, instead to the death. When searching for food, their raucous calls

teetering to and fro as if can be heard well before the flocks themselves are seen.

always dancing and ine-

briated. Watching them

stagger for too long will

disorient onlookers; this

is their primary form of

defense, as their lurch-

ing makes it impossible

for foes to aim. Every

Spinda has its own set of

spots--the odds of two

Spinda sharing the same

pattern are less than one in four-trillion. In battle, Spinda

weaponize their erratic motions with wild dancing, confus-

ing all who observe them. Wild Spinda live in groups of a

few dozen. They feed on shoots and Berries. In the evening,

groups will begin to dance wildly, teetering and spinning

aimlessly. They will continue this strange dancing until the

moon rises before collapsing onto the floor in a daze. This

ritualistic dancing is believed to be a form of recreation.

516

Squawkabilly 

Zangoose 

Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 5

Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 14

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Gang Down (Squawkabilly can have different plumage: Green, Blue, Yellow, and White. Squawkabilly are born with different colors and remain that color for their whole life.), Flight (can fly)
Passives: Intimidate (+1 Defense), Guts [Green / Blue] (While afflicted, your Attack is +2.), Sheer Force [Yellow / White] (Your attacks that have additional effects that affect the target may deal +4 damage, but will not have those additional effects.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)
Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.
Fly - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Fly is a two-turn move. On the first turn, fly up to 40 ft straight up. On the second turn, fly up to your movement speed +40 ft, then you can roll Fly's Accuracy Check and damage.
Swagger - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.

Skills: Passives: Swords Dance (+2 Attack), Toxic Boost (If you would have been Poisoned, or Toxified, you are not and your Attack is +2 for 2 mins.)
Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +3, Effect +4) Crush Claw - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins. Taunt - Ranged(20ft) Dark Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target may only use attacks that target you or your allies for 1 min. Close Combat - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Defense and Special Defense are -2 for 10 mins.
Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Grasslands Proficiencies: Dark / Elemental Attack / Slashing

Biology: Egg Group - Flying, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Urban
Proficiencies: Flying / Avian / Winged

Zangoose saunter around grasslands on all fours; however, they will stand bipedally when preparing to attack. They are most famous for their bitter rivalries with Seviper; if they sense Seviper near them, their fur will bristle and they will stand up, ready to attack. Their feud seems almost genetic, with even newborn Zangoose becoming aggressive when Seviper are nearby. The scars on their bodies are likely from duels with Seviper. They only bare their claws when attacking, leaving them withdrawn outside of battle. These claws are their biggest weapons, capable of slashing viciously into exposed flesh. Zangoose are very agile, capable of dodging attacks while standing up. They have developed resistances to Seviper poison from years of bitter conflict.

517

Nidoran / Nidorina / Nidoqueen 

Nidoran

Poison - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 4

Skills: -

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Leer (+1 Attack), Poison Point (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Poison the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Scratch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Double Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 2d8. Double Kick is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.
Poison Sting - Melee Poison Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

Nidorina

Poison - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 6

Skills: -

Passives: Growl, Leer, Hustle (Your attacks against foes have -2 Accuracy. After the first time you miss an attack during an encounter, the -2 Accuracy penalty is removed and you gain +4 Attack until the end of the encounter.)Poison Point

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

These small Pokťmon are extremely timid and docile, but also very venomous. Even a tiny drop of the venom they excrete from their barbs can potentially be fatal. To make matters worse, Nidoran are easily spooked, and it is not at all difficult to accidentally be scratched by a fleeing individual. If cornered, however, Nidoran will defend themselves with their horns; while these horns are smaller than that of the males of this species, they still nevertheless are very dangerous. It is rare to find a lone Nidoran, as they are very social Pokťmon that are almost never seen without elder Nidorina and Nidoqueen, or at the very least sibling Nidoran, accompanying them. In fact, the vast majority of documented cases of Nidoran poisonings have been attributed to skittish and scared wild individuals attacking out of sheer terror after having been separated from their families.

Toxic Spikes - Ranged(20ft burst) Poison Effect: 3/day. Place the Toxic Spikes Hazard in the area surrounding you. Toxic Spikes Hazard has the following ability: When a foe moves through Toxic Spikes Hazard during their turn and are on the ground, they are Poisoned. If the Toxic Spikes Hazard has multiple layers, it will Toxify foes instead of Poisoning them instead. This Hazard disappears after 2 mins.

Flatter - Ranged(10ft) Dark Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Special Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.

518

Like some Nidoran, Nidorina tend to avoid confrontation but are fiercely defensive of their young, battering enemies with physical attacks when their children are threatened. Like the rest of their relatives, they live in burrows in open plains with their large family groups. Unlike those of Nidorino, a Nidorina horn and barbs grow rather slowly, as it is not necessary for them to develop quickly because they are very rarely in competition with each other. These Pokťmon are very affectionate with those in their tightly-bonded family groups, and can easily become nervous or even upset when separated from them. Nidorina withdraw their spikes when interacting with family members to prevent themselves from harming each other. To feed their young, they first chew food before sharing with their children to eat.

Nidoqueen

Poison / Ground - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Groundshaper (can manipulate the ground)

Passives: Growl, Leer, Hustle, Poison Point, Sheer Force (Your attacks that have additional effects that affect the target may deal +4 damage, but will not have those additional effects.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +4, Effect +4)

Nidoqueen lead Nidoran families alongside Nidoking. These Pokťmon are famously motherly, willing to defend their young with their lives. Nidoqueen are powerful Pokťmon that are able to execute a variety of powerful special

Body Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed. Body Slam can Paralyze Electric-types.

and physical attacks. They will tackle foes who threaten their young with their massive bulk. Their tough armor and needle-like scales provide them with protection; they bristle outwards when Nidoqueen are provoked and can inject a powerful poison. These Pokťmon will block the entrances to their burrows using their bodies, with their venomous

Earth Power - Ranged(15ft) Ground Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Superpower - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Attack and Defense is -2 for 10 mins.

spines facing outwards, in order to defend their young.

Nidoqueen are also known to set off earth-shaking tremors

to scare potential attackers from their burrows. Younger Nidoran and Nidorina look up to Nidoqueen.

Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Fields / Savannas

Evolution: Nidoran Nidoqueen

Nidorina

Moon Stone

Proficiencies: Ground / Poison / Horned (Nidoqueen) / Normal Block / Stampeding (Nidoqueen)

* The Nidoran families on 516-519 are all part of the same family.
519

Nidoran / Nidorino / Nidoking 

Nidoran

Poison - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 4

Skills: -

Passives: Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Leer (+1 Attack), Poison Point (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Poison the attacker.)
Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Peck - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Double Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 2d8. Double Kick is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.
Poison Sting - Melee Poison Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

Nidorino

Poison - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 6

Skills: -

Passives: Focus Energy, Leer, Hustle (Your attacks against foes have -2 Accuracy. After the first time you miss an attack during an encounter, the -2 Accuracy penalty is removed and you gain +4 Attack until the end of the encounter.), Poison Point

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)
Toxic Spikes - Ranged(20ft burst) Poison Effect: 3/day. Place the Toxic Spikes Hazard in the area surrounding you. Toxic Spikes Hazard has the following ability: When a foe moves through Toxic Spikes Hazard during their turn and are on the ground, they are Poisoned. If the Toxic Spikes Hazard has multiple layers, it will Toxify foes instead of Poisoning them instead. This Hazard disappears after 2 mins.

The males of the Nidoran species have two main assets: their large ears and their poisonous barbs. Their muscles allow for their ears to move freely. They can hone in on the smallest sounds. By hiding in tall grass and raising and stiffening their ears just above it, Nidoran can scan their surroundings and use their ears to detect danger from far away. To defend themselves, they can extend toxic spikes from their bodies or stab enemies with their horns. The toxicity of their barbs directly correlates to their sizes, but even small barbs can be extremely dangerous. Nidoran are shy and try to avoid fights, only using their venom to defend themselves as necessary when confronted. Nidoran are herbivores and consume plants as their main source of food, and can even devour toxic ones without any ill effects; some scientists even believe that Nidoran gather their poison from such plants.

Poison Jab - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

Chip Away - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. Chip Away has +2 on Accuracy Check if used against a target with a Defense or Special Defense raising passive.

520

Nidorino are often highly aggressive. They use their ears to listen for any possible dangers. If they sense one, they will lunge at it immediately with their large, poisonous horns. Once they stab their opponents, Nidorino quickly pump in large amounts of venom to incapacitate them. Like those of Nidorina, the barbs on their bodies bristle when they sense danger or are preparing to attack. These Pokťmon generally spend the day scouting and searching for food, returning to their burrows only at night to rest. They bring back resources to share with the rest of their families. However, even the slightest noise will awaken sleeping Nidorino, thanks to their highly sensitive ears. They will not hesitate to locate the source of a foreign sound and attack it with their horns, especially if the threat appears to be endangering their young.

Nidoking

Poison / Ground - Large (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 48 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Groundshaper (can manipulate the ground),

Passives: Focus Energy, Leer, Hustle, Poison Point, Sheer Force (Your attacks that have additional effects that affect the target may deal +4 damage, but will not have those additional effects.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +4, Effect +4)

In Nidoran families, Nidoking assume the roles of protectors and hunters, patrolling in search of food to bring back to their burrows for their mates and offspring. They use their brute strength and steel-like armor to overpower their foes, crushing their enemies with their tails and piercing them with their poisonous horns. An enraged Nidoking is particularly dangerous, as it will go on a rampage that can only be stopped by defeating the Pokťmon. Nidoking can topple transmission towers and snap telephone poles and will destroy everything in their paths while rampaging. Threatening their families is one of the most common triggers for such attacks. Luckily, their rarity in the wild in combination with their tendency to stay away from human settlements makes berserk Nidoking a very rare, albeit still very dangerous, problem in most metropolitan areas.

Horn Drill - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day. On hit, roll 1d20. On a natural result of 17, 18, 19, or 20, the target is set to 0 HP.
Earth Power - Ranged(15ft) Ground Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Megahorn - Melee Bug Attack: 1/day 5d12.

Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Fields / Savannas

Evolution: Nidoran Nidoking

Nidorino

Moon Stone

Proficiencies: Ground / Poison / Horned / Normal Block / Stampeding (Nidoking)

* The Nidoran families on 516-519 are all part of the same family.
521

Zubat / Golbat / Crobat 

Zubat

Poison / Flying - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Inner Focus (You are immune to being Stunned.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +1, Effect +3)
Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Supersonic - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. Supersonic has -8 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Golbat

Poison / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Flight

Passives: Screech (+2 Attack), Infiltrator (Hindering terrain and Walls do not affect you or your attacks.), Inner Focus

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Wing Attack - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d8.

Poison Fang - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, if you got 10 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Toxified.

Mean Look - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is bound in place for 2 mins. Ghost Pokťmon are immune to Mean Look.

Zubat form huge colonies in caverns, numbering up to thousands of individuals. Without eyes or noses, Zubat navigate the winding dark caves using echolocation. They emit ultrasonic cries to fly safely, using their keen hearing to detect potential dangers. At night, Zubat may leave their caves in large groups, with as many as ten-thousand individuals leaving from caverns where they are more abundant. They search for food on these nightly flights, which unlike the diets of their evolutions, consists mostly of nectar, fruits, and Berries. As daylight approaches, wild Zubat must return to their caves or other dark places, as the light of the sun can burn their delicate skin. To stay warm during cold nights, they will huddle together in groups as they sleep. Zubat defend themselves with disorienting screams which they may use on unwary, intruding travelers.

522

Golbat are found in caves and dark areas worldwide. Golbat are hematophagous, consuming the blood of Pokťmon and humans alike. They use their sharp fangs to puncture the skins of victims. Their saliva contains a substance that poisons and immobilizes prey, allowing them to drink blood at their leisure. Golbat can drink up to ten ounces of blood in one sitting, possibly fatal for smaller victims. After doing so, however, their flight often becomes clumsy and erratic due to their heavy weights after large meals; they may become so heavy that they fall to the ground and become easy prey themselves. Luckily, this feasting keeps them satisfied for a while; they only search for food during moonless nights when darkness conceals them. Their fangs are hollow and consequently fragile.

Crobat

Poison / Flying - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight) Hit Points: 54 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 13 (65 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 7 Skills: Flight Passives: Screech, Infiltrator, Inner Focus

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +6)

Crobat have a second pair of wings. While the pair improves their maneuverability and airspeed, it also makes it difficult for them to stop, land, or rest. Crobat leave their caves at night, flying silently in the darkness in search of food. Though large, Crobat are silent fliers. They can alternate between their two sets of wings when tired, allowing them to fly for indefinite periods of time. When dawn arrives, Crobat will either return back to their caves or hang from under tree branches, wrapping their wings around themselves until the sun sets again. Crobat are not aggressive towards humans. They usually do not attack people, instead only going after what they see as viable prey. Their fangs are sharp and coated with an analgesic that numbs the bitten area so that victims don't even know they've been bitten until it's too late.

Cross Poison - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Cross Poison is a critical hit and the target is Poisoned.
Confuse Ray - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target becomes Confused.
Acrobatics - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Acrobatics cannot be used if you have a held item.

Biology: Egg Group - Flying / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Caves

Evolution: Zubat

Golbat

Crobat

Proficiencies: Flying / Poison / Fangs / Winged

523

Croagunk / Toxicroak 

Croagunk

Poison / Fighting - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain)

Passives: Dry Skin (In sunny weather, you lose 4 HP at the end of your actions. In rainy weather, you recover 4 HP at the end of your actions. You are immune to Water-type attacks.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Poison Sting - Melee Poison Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.
Pursuit - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d6. Pursuit deals +6 damage to a target if they ended their turn further away from you during the start of their turn.
Revenge - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. If you were attacked by the target this round, use 3d12 for damage instead.

Toxicroak

Poison / Fighting - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Climber

Passives: Nasty Plot (+1 Special Attack), Dry Skin, Poison Touch (Whenever you hit with a melee attack, you may roll 1d6. On 6, Poison the target.)

Croagunk dwell in damp, dark areas away from direct sunlight. They are aloof Pokťmon, preferring to ignore others as much as possible and only engaging in combat when their lives are in peril. When fighting, however, they are not above using dirty tactics to keep themselves alive; they are known for making liberal use of cheap shots in battle. By expanding and deflating the poison sacs on their cheeks, they can emit an unsettling blubbering sound that often causes foes to react. They take advantage of these moments to jab enemies with their poisonous fingers, which are toxic enough to kill some smaller Pokťmon upon contact. Croagunk can also spray poison straight out of their fingertips.

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)
Swagger - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.
Mud Bomb - Ranged(10ft) Ground Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.
Poison Jab - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

Biology: Egg Group - Human-Like / Water 1, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Marshes / Forests

Evolution: Croagunk

Toxicroak

Proficiencies: Fighting / Poison / Slashing (Toxicroak) / Tricky

524

Toxicroak are generally laid-back Pokťmon, found

When first born, Ekans lack any poison whatsoever, so

resting on damp rocks and boulders. They can become

being bit by very young Ekans is unlikely to be too

formidable foes, however, when provoked. Their flexible dangerous apart from the pain of the bites themselves. As

bodies let them weave through attacks in battle, drawing in Ekans develop, their bodies elongate and they begin to

close enough to deal their own blows. The large, vibrant

develop poison glands. Ekans use their poison more as a

poison sacs on their necks also doubles as vocal sacs; when defense as opposed to an offense. They mainly prey on the

they croak, the poison within the sacs is churned and

defenseless eggs of Pokťmon. Using their tongues to sense

becomes even more virulent. Even touching their skin can their surroundings, Ekans are able to locate nests of eggs

be dangerous due to the powerful poison it is coated in.

with ease. They can unhinge their jaws and swallow eggs

Toxicroak can regulate their poison levels to fit the

whole, though unlucky Ekans may end up immobile from

situation, however, so trained ones are usually safe to

the sheer weight of those eggs until digestion. Hiding in tall

touch. Tubes run down the lengths of their arms,

grass, Ekans avoid predators and warn those who

connecting their poison sacs to their knuckles. One of their approach with a rattling sound from their tails. Should the

knuckles on each hand has adapted into a hollow, sharp sound fail, they will attempt to bite opponents to poison

nail that enables Toxicroak to viciously slash foes and

them. Ekans often coil around tree branches to rest if they

penetrate their skin. When they cut, the knuckles can then are available, but are also content to curl up into spirals so

secrete poison directly into the bloodstreams of victims, their heads can easily attack potential predators when

allowing the effects to become noticeable much more

threatened.

quickly than by touch. After a win in battle, Toxicroak will

customarily let out a victory croak to celebrate their

triumph.

525

Ekans / Arbok 

Ekans

Poison - Medium (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Stealth (can make stealth skill checks), Tracker (can follow scents)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Shed Skin (After acting, you may roll 1d4. On 4, you are cured of any afflictions.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Wrap - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 physical damage on its turns.
Poison Sting - Melee Poison Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Arbok

Poison - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 14

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Stealth, Swimmer (can swim), Tracker

Passives: Coil (+2 Attack, +1 Defense), Intimidate (+1 Defense), Screech (+2 Attack), Shed Skin, Unnerve (Foes within 25ft of you cannot consume food.)

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Arbok are vicious hunters--and vengeful ones at that. If attacked, they will chase down opponents relentlessly until they catch them. Arbok are masters of intimidation. The patterns on their bellies can paralyze foes in fear. These belly patterns differ from area to area. If the patterns alone are insufficient, they can also make eerie hissing noises by expelling air slowly from their mouths. Once their prey is immobilized, Arbok will constrict them with a crushing force able to flatten steel drums. They can easily poison stronger foes, weakening them enough for them to constrict easily. Surprisingly, Arbok are rather adept swimmers as well, capable of crossing lakes and rivers effortlessly. Notably, Arbok seem to become mesmerized and peaceful upon hearing the sound of wind instruments. An Arbok in the middle of constricting its prey will even loosen its grip upon hearing such sounds.

Glare - Ranged(20ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target becomes Paralyzed.
Acid Spray - Ranged(20ft) Poison Special Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet - Carnivore, Habitat - Plains / Savannas

Evolution: Ekans

Arbok

Proficiencies: Poison / Fangs / Glutton / Stampeding (Arbok)

526

Grimer / Muk 

Grimer

Poison - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Amorphous (can change their body into a liquid-like state), Repulsive (repels others with a foul smell)

Passives: Acid Armor (+2 Defense), Screech (+2 Attack), Stench (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Stun the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)

Mud-Slap - Ranged(5ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 1d6. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.

Sludge - Ranged(15ft) Poison Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

Disable - Ranged(20ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. For 1 minute, the attack last used by the target may not be used again.

Grimer originally emerged from polluted waterways filled with radioactive industrial waste. In this freak accident of nature, Grimer emerged, breeding and multiplying quickly. Grimer feed on toxic sludge and can squeeze their gellike bodies through almost any opening to get to it, often infiltrating sewage pipes and occasionally clogging them up if present in larger numbers. Their putrid smell is indicative of cities with polluted waterways. Wherever Grimer go, their toxins kill flora upon contact and prevent anything else from growing there. Additionally, they can reproduce in the wild asexually; bits of them may drop off as they travel to form small sludge covered eggs. Grimer will die if their bacterial sludge is purified; new urban sanitation methods have recently decreased their numbers.

Muk

Poison - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 66 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Amorphous, Repulsive

Passives: Acid Armor, Screech, Poison Touch (Whenever you hit with a melee attack, you may roll 1d6. On 6, Poison the target.), Stench, Sticky Hold (You cannot drop held items or have held items stolen from you.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Biology: Egg Group - Amorphous / Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Pollutivore, Habitat - Urban Abandoned / Urban Plants

Evolution: Grimer

Muk

Proficiencies: Ground / Poison / Elemental Attack EF

Venom Drench - Ranged(10ft) Poison Effect: 3/day. Venom Drench can only target a Poisoned or Toxified enemy. On hit, the target's Attack, Special Attack, and Speed are -3 for 10 mins.
Mud Bomb - Ranged(10ft) Ground Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.

Sludge Wave - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Poison Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Poisoned.

Evolution Shift compatible with Grimer (Oil Polluted) family (527)
527

These Grimer instead feed on a toxic mixture of partially

Muk are living embodiments of liquid waste. A single drop from one can pollute an entire lake. They prefer warm and humid places, but they can thrive anywhere that is near polluted water. Muk smell so rancid that plants near them will wilt. Their noses have degenerated, so they are unable to smell themselves. Their stenches worsen in hot summers though a select few seem to enjoy the odor. Muk trails are inhospitable to life and kill most plants on contact. They can transmit many infectious diseases if touched. Muk are less dense than water, so lakes with many of them may appear to be covered in sludge. Thankfully, Muk learn to control their poisons after evolving and can peacefully coexist with others who can tolerate their smell. They will unleash their toxins on those who threaten their young,

-processed garbage, petroleum byproducts, and treatment chemicals though they hardly are picky eaters, and will eat whatever comes their way. If born near oil polluted waters, they change much of their genetic makeup. This not only gives them their different appearances, but also causes the crystallization of certain chemicals into solid form within their bodies. Touching these crystals is extremely dangerous; if they fall out, poisonous gases and fluids will leak out of the bodies of these Pokťmon until the holes seal up again. These Grimer are often employed in places with many oil spills or oil runoff. Though they are usually contained, there have been incidents where they have broken free and to eat non-waste products due to lack of food in these areas.

who they are fiercely protective of. Because they require

pollution to survive, environmental efforts may one day

lead to their extinction.

528

Grimer / Muk (Oil Polluted) 

Grimer (Oil Polluted)

Poison / Dark - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Amorphous

Passives: Acid Armor, Screech, Poison Touch (Whenever you hit with a melee attack, you may roll 1d6. On 6, Poison the target.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Acid Spray - Ranged(20ft) Poison Special Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Disable - Ranged(20ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. For 1 minute, the attack last used by the target may not be used again.

Oil drenched Muk are very friendly and quiet. This is because their ancestors were raised with abundant food near humans in waste-processing plants, rendering them without need for aggressive survival instincts. Their diets of waste and petroleum grant them their vibrant colorations, which seem to flow in bands down their bodies as they move. Their hues will gradually change as their diets vary. Muk are voracious eaters that must consume waste almost constantly. They will feel sharp hunger pangs when deprived of food; normally-docile individuals are known to smash furnishings into shrapnel for food to satiate their hunger. These Pokťmon store gathered toxins within their bodies, where they react to create newer and more toxic concoctions. Strangely, for these Muk, their chemicals are usually contained within their bodies, keeping them odorfree. Crystallized toxins form sharp claws and teeth these creatures can use to simultaneously attack and poison foes. These crystals easily come loose to embed themselves in foes to more effectively incapacitate them; poisonous chemicals and gases will continue to leak from the gaps left behind until they reseal.

Muk (Oil Polluted)

Poison / Dark - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 66 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Amorphous

Passives: Acid Armor, Screech, Poison Touch, Power of Alchemy (When an ally is knocked out within 10ft of you, you gain one of your ally's passives for 2 mins.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Venom Drench - Ranged(10ft) Poison Effect: 3/day. Venom Drench can only target a Poisoned or Toxified enemy. On hit, the target's Attack, Special Attack, and Speed are -3 for 10 mins.
Poison Fang - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, if you got 10 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Toxified.
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Amorphous / Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Pollutivore, Habitat - Urban Abandoned / Urban Plants

Evolution: Grimer

Muk

Proficiencies: Dark / Poison / Rock / Elemental Attack F

Evolution Shift compatible with Grimer family (525)

529

Gulpin / Swalot 

Gulpin

Poison - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Inflatable (can expand), Repulsive (repels others with a foul smell)

Passives: Amnesia (+2 Special Defense), Liquid Ooze (If you are hit by an attack that damages you and heals the attacker, the attacker is dealt damage equal to what they would have healed, instead of healing.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)

Pound - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Yawn - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target falls Asleep after its next turn.

Sludge - Ranged(15ft) Poison Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

Swalot

Poison - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Inflatable

Passives: Amnesia, Liquid Ooze, Sticky Hold (You cannot drop held items or have held items stolen from you.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)
Stockpile - Normal Self Effect: At-Will. Put a Stuff Coat on yourself, unless you already have 3 Coats of Stuff. The Coat has the following ability: Your Defense and Special Defense are +1 if you have 1 or 2 Coats of Stuff. If you have 3 Coats of Stuff, your Defense and Special Defense are +2. These Coats last for 2 mins.
Spit Up - Ranged(15ft) Normal Special Attack: 1/day. Destroy up to 3 of your Coats of Stuff. For every Coat of Stuff you destroy, Spit Up deals an additional 2d10 damage.

Gulpin have huge stomachs that take up eighty percent of their bodies; in comparison, their hearts and lungs are miniscule. They also have disproportionately large mouths, capable of extending to swallowing things as tall themselves, their stretchy skin and lack of internal skeletons aid them in this task. Gulpin have no teeth or esophagi, so any food they swallow goes directly into their cavernous stomachs. Their gastric acids are some of the strongest natural acids known, capable of dissolving scrap iron. Because of this characteristic, Gulpin are not very picky eaters, consuming nearly anything that they can swallow. As they digest their meals, gases begin to build up within their bodies, which they release in periodic belches. The fumes they exhale are putrid and overpowering, capable of knocking people out simply from their overwhelming stench. The feather-like protrusions that stick out from their heads are purely for show.

Biology: Egg Group - Amorphous, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Grasslands

Evolution: Gulpin

Swalot

Proficiencies: Poison / Glutton / Stampeding (Swalot)

Swallow - Normal Self Effect: 1/day. Destroy up to 3 of your Coats of Stuff. For every Coat of Stuff you destroy, Swallow heals you 25 HP.

530

Swalot have highly elastic bodies. They can easily fit car

Mareanie have posed an ecological headache for

tires within their mouths and can swallow prey of similar conservationists for decades. They feed almost exclusively

size whole. Swalot sweat a highly toxic fluid from pores on on the horns of Corsola, both discarded and still-growing.

their skin. Simply touching them can cause dizziness and The reefs formed by shed Corsola horns are so integral to

nausea, while extended contact can lead to paralysis,

the ecosystems of tropical waters and house many

convulsions, and even death. Swalot may employ one of a different species of Pokťmon, researchers closely observe

few different methods when hunting. Firstly, they may rub Mareanie populations to ensure that they remain in check.

themselves against targets to immobilize them and then These Pokťmon do not seem to discriminate between fresh

swallow them alive and whole. They can also spray foes

and discarded horns, so Corsola populations in areas

with their toxins directly from their pores. Additionally, they where Mareanie are found have evolved to shed their

may vomit some of their own stomach acids which can

horns prematurely in case of predation. Once they have

dissolve nearly anything other than their own stomach

cleared a space of Corsola horns, they will trawl the sea

linings onto prey, dissolving them into more a digestible

floor in search of more. If they come across live Corsola,

goop. When Swalot yawn, they are in fact preparing to attack. They have poor vision and use their whiskers to feel around. These whiskers are prehensile, and are used to shovel food into their mouths.

they will plunge the large poison spikes on their heads into them to subdue them. Once weakened, Mareanie will use their ten spiked tentacles to finish them off. Mareanie can also extend their tentacles slightly or fire their poison spikes to take down prey.

531

Mareanie / Toxapex 

Mareanie

Poison / Water - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Fountain (can create water), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Limber (You are immune to being Paralyzed.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)

Poison Sting - Melee Poison Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Toxic Spikes - Ranged(20ft burst) Poison Effect: 3/day. Place the Toxic Spikes Hazard in the area surrounding you. Toxic Spikes Hazard has the following ability: When a foe moves through Toxic Spikes Hazard during their turn and are on the ground, they are Poisoned. If the Toxic Spikes Hazard has multiple layers, it will Toxify foes instead of Poisoning them instead. This Hazard disappears after 2 mins.

Toxapex

Poison / Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 15 Special Defense: 14

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Flopper, Fountain, Gilled, Swimmer

Passives: Limber, Merciless (On hit, your attacks are critical hits if the target is Poisoned or Toxified.), Regenerator (When returned to a Poke Ball, you recover to Max HP after being stored for 1 hour.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Baneful Bunker - Self Poison Effect: 1/day. Baneful Bunker is used as a Reaction. If you would be hit by a melee attack, use Baneful Bunker to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack, and also Poison the attacker.

Toxapex prey exclusively on Corsola and consequently thrive in the fragile reefs that their horns create. They crawl on the sea floor with their twelve tentacles in search of Corsola. Toxapex usually remain sheltered within their tentacles, which form a spiked, protective dome around their bodies. This dome also keeps them firmly rooted into the substrate beneath, allowing them to endure the crashing waves of an intertidal habitat. In colder climates, it insulates them from chilly waters by retaining heat within. Toxapex can invert their tentacles and spikes, to launch poisonous spines at enemies. They use their poison to subdue Corsola as they crunch on their horns. Toxapex seem to try to keep Corsola alive as they feed; that way, their horns can regrow and allow Toxapex to feed once more in the future. Somewhat macabrely, this makes them less of a danger to reefs than Mareanie, as they do not outright kill Corsola though the destruction of their horns is still a significant threat to reefs. Toxapex are a concern to divers, however, as it is easy to accidentally step on them when exploring. Their poison, created by a sac within their bodies, remains in the system for three days, causing intense pain, with some aftereffects lingering for a week.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Water 3, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Carnivore, Habitat - Beaches / Ocean Floors / Ocean Reefs

Evolution: Mareanie

Toxapex

Proficiencies: Ice / Poison / Water / Prickly

Pin Missile - Ranged(10ft) Bug Attack: At-Will 1d4. Pin Missile has -2 during Accuracy Check. Pin Missile is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Liquidation - Ranged(10ft) Water Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

532

Salandit / Salazzle 

Salandit

Poison / Fire - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire)

Passives: Corrosion (You can Poison and Toxify Steel-types and Poison-types.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Smog - Ranged(5ft) Poison Special Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you got 13 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

Salandit dwell in dry, arid areas with plenty of crags to scurry in and out of. They often make their homes near the sites of active volcanoes. These Pokťmon are not very strong, so they rely on stealth and deception to outwit foes. Salandit can combust the bodily fluids produced by their venom sacs to create flames and release them from the bases of their tails. This ignition also produces toxic gases as a byproduct, which Salandit can also emit from the same place. The fumes have an oddly sweet aroma; those inhaling it often do not even realize that they are breathing poison until they feel lightheaded and dizzy. Given enough time, even the strongest and most resilient Pokťmon will begin to feel its effects. Salandit prefer to sneak up on prey from behind and immobilize them with their fumes before the victims even notice. When endangered, female Salandit may call upon the males of the area to come to its aid, amplifying the amount of poisonous gases released. Male Salandit will deliver most of their gathered food to females, often leaving them quite malnourished.

Double Slap - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Double Slap has -2 during Accuracy Check. Double Slap is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Salazzle

Poison / Fire - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 12

Skills: Alluring (attracts others with their aroma), Firestarter
Passives: Nasty Plot (+1 Special Attack), Corrosion, Oblivious (You are immune to Infatuation.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +6, Effect +6)

Venoshock - Ranged(10ft) Poison Special Attack: 3/day 2d10. If the target is Poisoned or Toxified, Venoshock has 4d10 for damage instead.

Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Badlands / Volcanoes

Evolution: Salandit

Salazzle

Proficiencies: Fire / Poison / Draconian / Tricky

Flamethrower - Ranged(20ft beam) Fire Special Attack: 3/ day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.
Dragon Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.

533

Only female Salandit are able to evolve into Salazzle.

Shroodle make their homes within the leaf litter of forest

Salazzle emit intoxicating pheromones that arouse interest floors under the shade of trees. Their saliva is both noxious

from male of all species. They use this ability to gather a and poisonous, and they utilize the fluid to paint markings

following of male Salandit that will cater to their every

around their territories. After depositing globs of saliva,

whim. Salandit in a following will gather food for their

they will spread it around liberally to diffuse its acrid

Salazzle and defend it from attackers. When displeased

aroma. Because this odor is usually enough to keep

with the amount or quality of food a Salandit brings back, predators at bay, Shroodle are actually quite docile and are

the head Salazzle will ignite her palms and slap it across the slow to respond to threats. When they are in danger,

cheek. Salazzle can also defend themselves with noxious however, they will rush in and sink their sharp front teeth

fumes and flames, but they rarely elect to do so, instead

into the flesh of their foes. Their poisonous saliva can cause

sending in Salandit after Salandit to battle in their places. paralysis within seconds. To add insult to injury, their

Female Salazzle with larger followings assert dominance

immobilized victims are then forced to endure the

over rival Salazzle with fewer Salandit under their control. Salazzle leaders will even try to sway each other's followers to their own groups, always looking to expand their reach in the wild.

unpleasant aroma of Shroodle saliva wafting from their open wounds. In some regions, fresh Shroodle spit was scraped off of tree bark and used to coat the tips of weapons, assisting in the hunting of large game.

534

Shroodle / Grafaiai 

Shroodle

Poison / Normal - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Pickpocket (When you are hit by a melee attack, you steal the offender's held item, if any.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)

Scratch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Acid Spray - Ranged(20ft) Poison Special Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Grafaiai are antisocial Pokťmon that dislike people and other Pokťmon, including other Grafaiai, within their territories. Their saliva is heavily pigmented, and they use it with liberty to demarcate their territories. Grafaiai will lick their fingers to coat them in colored saliva and then meticulously draw patterns on tree trunks to mark their domains. Each Grafaiai has its own signature pattern that it will draw over and over again over the course of its lifetime. The saliva is also both toxic and sweet-smelling. These nocturnal Pokťmon will paint fresh trees over the course of the night and then retrace their steps at dawn to feast on hapless Bug-types drawn to and then paralyzed by their spit. Grafaiai saliva changes color based on their diets. When in danger, they produce higher concentrations of poison in their saliva, which they then spit out or coat their finger to scratch at opponents with. The poison absorbs through skin and can paralyze a person for days.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Forests

Evolution: Shroodle

Grafaiai

Proficiencies: Poison / Slashing (Grafaiai) / Tricky

Flatter - Ranged(10ft) Dark Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Special Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.
Grafaiai
Poison / Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 36 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7
Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 8
Skills: Climber
Passives: Leer, Pickpocket, Poison Touch (Whenever you hit with a melee attack, you may roll 1d6. On 6, Poison the target.), Prankster (Your attacks that do not deal damage on hit have Priority.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +4, Effect +5)
Doodle - Ranged(40ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, gain each ability passive that the target has for 10 mins. Doodle can only grant ability passives from one target at a time.
Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.
Gunk Shot - Ranged(20ft, 10ft blast) Poison Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Poisoned.

535

Skorupi / Drapion 

Skorupi

Poison / Bug - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 3

Skills: -

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Battle Armor (Critical hits are treated as normal hits against you.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +1, Effect +3)

Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Poison Sting - Melee Poison Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

Pin Missile - Ranged(10ft) Bug Attack: At-Will 1d4. Pin Missile has -2 during Accuracy Check. Pin Missile is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Drapion
Poison / Dark - Large (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 42 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 8 Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 6 Skills: Strength (very strong) Passives: Hone Claws (+2 Attack), Battle Armor, Keen Eye (Your accuracy checks cannot be negatively affected by foes.), Sniper (When you land a critical hit, you deal an additional 8 damage.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +5)

Skorupi are found primarily in arid deserts, though some populations have been able to survive along the shores of marshes. They bury themselves in sand or mud and patiently wait for prey to wander by. Then, they lash out and grasps their victims with the pincers on their tails before stabbing them with their needle-like stingers to inject an immobilizing poison. They can go up to a week without food and can similarly survive for long periods of time without water. Skorupi that dwell in wetter environments can sometimes be found perched on stones bathed in direct sunlight, drying and warming their bodies. In deserts, they may burrow into the sand to stay cool during the sweltering daytime. Skorupi glow a striking electric blue when exposed to ultraviolet light. What purpose this serves is as of yet unknown, but some speculate that it may have to do with being able to detect others of their kind in the darkness; it is possible that Skorupi can see ultraviolet light.

Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Fell Stinger - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d8. If you knock out a target with Fell Stinger, your Attack is +2 for 10 mins.
Cross Poison - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Cross Poison is a critical hit and the target is Poisoned.

Biology: Egg Group - Bug / Water 3, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Deserts / Marshes

Evolution: Skorupi

Drapion

Proficiencies: Bug / Dark (Drapion) / Poison / Fangs / Stampeding (Drapion)

536

Skrelp are poor swimmers and travel very slowly

through the water, as their pectoral fins cannot efficiently

propel their upright bodies. Skrelp do not need to be agile,

Drapion are aggressively territorial by nature,

because they spend their time camouflaging themselves in

relentlessly attacking anyone that encroaches on their land. kelp forests, where they are virtually indistinguishable from

They are known for attacking desert travelers seemingly out of nowhere. Drapion use their tough pincers to tear apart foes; they are powerful enough to turn cars into piles of scrap metal. In addition to their strength, their claws can also inject a fatal venom that leaves victims in excruciating pain before they succumb to it. Their sturdy bodies are a source of pride among the species; while their venom is very powerful, they prefer to defeat foes using only brute

the seaweed thanks to the growths on their bodies that resemble rotting kelp. In these forests, Skrelp patiently wait for unwary prey seeking shelter within the kelp to swim by before spraying them with liquid poison and consuming them; the bulk of their diets, is the rotting kelp that they hide in. These Pokťmon try to move as little as possible in order to conserve energy for evolution and avoid predation.

force to demonstrate their power. Their bodies are encased

in durable carapaces that protect them from attacks.

Drapion can rotate their heads 180į, allowing them to see

virtually everything around them.

537

Skrelp / Dragalge 

Skrelp

Poison / Water - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Poison Point (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Poison the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +1)
Bubble - Ranged(15ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Acid Spray - Ranged(20ft) Poison Special Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Poison Tail - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned; if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Poison Tail is a critical hit.

Dragalge

Poison / Dragon - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 12

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Flopper, Fountain (can create water), Gilled, Swimmer
Passives: Tail Whip, Adaptability (Moves that are the same type as you deal +4 damage.), Poison Point, Poison Touch (Whenever you hit with a melee attack, you may roll 1d6. On 6, Poison the target.)

Dragalge inhabit kelp forests and trenches and will indiscriminately attack and attempt to destroy anything that enters their territories--ships included. Their corrosive poison is capable of dissolving holes into the hulls of small ships. Luckily, Dragalge confine themselves to specific areas of the sea, particularly deep trenches and thick kelp forests, where they disguise themselves to ambush unwary prey. In areas where Dragalge do live, however, they tend to appear in large numbers; it is likely that any vessel that tries to sail through them will encounter at least many if not all of the local Dragalge.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Ocean Abyss / Ocean

Evolution: Skrelp

Dragalge

Proficiencies: Dragon (Dragalge) / Poison / Water / Piscian

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +2)
Twister - Ranged(15ft) Dragon Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Water Pulse - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Sludge Bomb - Ranged(25ft, 5ft blast) Poison Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Poisoned.

538

Stunky / Skuntank 

Stunky are famous for being able to spray a noxious liquid from their rear ends. The smell is so horrid that Pokťmon and people will refuse to go near anyone or anything that has been sprayed. Once sprayed, it can take a full twenty-four hours for the stench to dissipate. Stunky spray their fluid only as a defense mechanism; they can only shoot about a half-dozen times before having to recharge their scent glands, a process that can take up to a week. To make up for this, they will first give off a variety of warning signals to scare foes off without shooting; they will hiss, stamp their feet, and then finally raise their tails before spraying. Stunky will aim for the face, and can spray from up to 16 feet away. After being doused once, most foes learn to recognize the warnings and flee before getting doused.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Forests / Woodlands

Evolution: Stunky

Skuntank

Proficiencies: Dark / Fire / Poison

Stunky

Poison / Dark - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Repulsive (repels others with a foul smell)

Passives: Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Screech (+2 Attack), Stench (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Stun the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Fury Swipes - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Fury Swipes has -2 during Accuracy Check. Fury Swipes is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Smoke Screen - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. Place up to 25 contiguous ft of Smoke Screen Wall. Smoke Screen Wall has no thickness, is 12 ft tall and has the following ability: Attacks that target through or within the wall have -2 during Accuracy Check. This Wall disappears after 2 mins.
Acid Spray - Ranged(20ft) Poison Special Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Skuntank

Poison / Dark - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 60 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Repulsive

Passives: Focus Energy, Screech, Aftermath (When knocked out by a melee attack, the attacker loses 1d20 HP.), Keen Eye (Your accuracy checks cannot be negatively affected by foes.), Stench

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)
Flamethrower - Ranged(20ft beam) Fire Special Attack: 3/ day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.
Night Slash - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Night Slash is a critical hit.
Venom Drench - Ranged(10ft) Poison Effect: 3/day. Venom Drench can only target a Poisoned or Toxified enemy. On hit, the target's Attack, Special Attack, and Speed are -3 for 10 mins.

539

Skuntank have scent glands on the tips of their tails rather than the bases. This enables them to aim at foes much better, since they can see where they are shooting. Skuntank can spray their noxious fluids and its smell doesn't wear off after a day or so; instead, it only worsens the longer the liquid is allowed to fester on it target. The exact odor varies based on Skuntank diets. As a side effect of their forward-oriented tails, Skuntank cannot see upwards very well, and are thus very susceptible to aerial attacks. The fluid produced by their scent glands is highly flammable; Skuntank can ignite the spurts of liquid that they spray in order to ignite their enemies, much to the surprise of many opponents. Skuntank dig their nests into flat ground, marking the surrounding area to warn intruders of their presence.

Trubbish are found in polluted urban areas, especially in landfills and dumps where solid waste is abundant. They eat whatever trash they can find laying around and incorporate it into their bodies. They are a hardy species that can live nearly anywhere as long as they can find sufficient food. In forests where campers have left trash, for example, one may find groups of them gathered around abandoned campsites. Trubbish are also known to follow people who litter frequently. Despite their appearances, DNA analysis has revealed that Trubbish have organic origins, though their true histories are unknown. Their breath is putrid due to the garbage they eat; their burps can be toxic, depending on what they have eaten recently. The gas they expel when they belch can be knock a person out for a week, or even cause life-threatening issues in young children and Pokťmon.

540

Trubbish / Garbodor 

Trubbish

Poison - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Repulsive (repels others with a foul smell)

Passives: Stench (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Stun the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Poison Gas - Ranged(5ft burst) Poison Effect: 3/day. Poison Gas has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, all targets are Poisoned.
Pound - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Acid Spray - Ranged(20ft) Poison Special Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Garbodor consume vast amounts of refuse daily. Their bodies contain potent unquantifiable toxins, developed from the rancid waste they eat; Garbodor poisonous cocktails will change daily based on its last meal. They have adapted to consume garbage so efficiently that they do not even have to chew; they simply inhale and swallow trash whole. Though peaceful, Garbodor are more than capable of defending themselves when threatened. They will grab foes with their left hands, spray them with virulent poison from the fingertips on their right hands, and then belch in their faces to knock them unconscious with poison gases. Due to their unpleasant smells and appearances, Garbodor are maligned by many. Some cities have even tried to remove them from their landfills. Despite this vitriol, Garbodor are in fact integral residents of urban areas; they consume waste far more cleanly than any machine, and without them many cities would become exceedingly filthy.

Garbodor

Poison - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Repulsive

Passives: Amnesia (+2 Special Defense), Aftermath (When knocked out by a melee attack, the attacker loses 1d20 HP.), Stench, Weak Armor (When you are hit by a melee attack, your Defense is -3 and your Speed is +3 for 10 mins.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)
Body Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed. Body Slam can Paralyze Electric-types.

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Pollutivore, Habitat - Urban Abandoned / Urban Plants

Evolution: Trubbish

Garbodor

Proficiencies: Poison / Elemental Attack E / Glutton / Stampeding (Garbodor)

Sludge Bomb - Ranged(25ft, 5ft blast) Poison Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Poisoned.
Toxic - Melee Poison Effect: 1/day. Toxic has -3 during Accuracy Check, unless you are Poison type. On hit, the target is Toxified.

This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2. 541

Wooper (High Ground) / Clodsire 

Wooper (High Ground)

Poison / Ground - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Poison Point (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Poison the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +1, Effect +1)

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Mud Shot - Ranged(10ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Toxic Spikes - Ranged(20ft burst) Poison Effect: 3/day. Place the Toxic Spikes Hazard in the area surrounding you. Toxic Spikes Hazard has the following ability: When a foe moves through Toxic Spikes Hazard during their turn and are on the ground, they are Poisoned. If the Toxic Spikes Hazard has multiple layers, it will Toxify foes instead of Poisoning them instead. This Hazard disappears after 2 mins.

Clodsire

Poison / Ground - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 78 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 12

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Gilled, Swimmer

Passives: Amnesia (+2 Special Defense), Tail Whip, Poison Point, Water Absorb (When you are hit by a water-type attack, halve the damage, then you heal that much HP instead of taking damage.)

Wooper who spend much more time on dry land than their relatives can still swim fairly well, but they primarily limit themselves to shallow waters, muddy ponds, and miry wetlands. They are believed to have been forced out of the water by predators who over-populate freshwaters. These Pokťmon sport hardened gills and a thicker mucus, both of which allow them to spend very long periods of time away from the water without drying out. Their mucus is also much more poisonous than that of the Wooper in other regions, keeping them protected from predators. Because of these adaptations, however, these Wooper are heavier and slower than their relatives. These Pokťmon travel in groups of three or four for safety in numbers. When threatened, they will use their hardened gills to impale enemies and inject them with their poisonous mucus. They can also spray poison from these gills to incapacitate foes from a distance.

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)
Mud Bomb - Ranged(10ft) Ground Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.
Sludge Wave - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Poison Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Poisoned.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Marshes / Swamps

Evolution: Wooper (High Ground)

Clodsire

Proficiencies: Ground / Poison / Stampeding (Clodsire)

Yawn - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target falls Asleep after its next turn.

Evolution Shift compatible with Wooper family (703)
542

Clodsire are coated in a poisonous film that keeps most predators at bay. They are quite friendly Pokťmon, though other species know well enough to stay far away. Clodsire dwell at the murky bottoms of stagnant ponds and swamps, often partially buried in the muck. Because related Wooper are quite slow, Clodsire can commonly be seen ferrying them on their backs across the water. Though their poison is enough to deter most enemies, Clodsire also possess a second, much more extreme method of defense that they only bring out in dire straits. When cornered, Clodsire can eject sharp, venomous spines from the spots on their bodies. These are actually its ribs, and the action leaves gaping holes in their flesh. Because Clodsire possess powerful regenerative properties, the wounds close quite quickly, but the Clodsire remain vulnerable until they heal. They will remain buried in the mud to hide until they recover after these maneuvers.
543

Koffing / Weezing 
/ Weezing (Heavy Pollution)

Koffing

Poison - Medium (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Flight (can fly), Repulsive (repels others with a foul smell)

Passives: Levitate (You are immune to Ground-type moves while you are airborne.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Poison Gas - Ranged(5ft burst) Poison Effect: 3/day. Poison Gas has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, all targets are Poisoned.
Smoke Screen - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. Place up to 25 contiguous ft of Smoke Screen Wall. Smoke Screen Wall has no thickness, is 12 ft tall and has the following ability: Attacks that target through or within the wall have -2 during Accuracy Check. This Wall disappears after 2 mins.
Assurance - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target was already attacked this round, Assurance deals +1d8 damage.

Weezing

Poison - Medium (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Flight, Repulsive

Passives: Levitate, Neutralizing Gas (Ability passives other than your own do not work within 10ft of you.), Stench (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Stun the attacker.)

Koffing live in smog-heavy areas, such as in highly polluted urban cities and above active volcanoes. They contain dozens of different poisonous fumes inside their bodies. Their skin is very thin, even transparent in certain lighting. In warmer climates, such as near volcanoes, the gases in their bodies can expand, stretching their skin and making them prone to exploding. Koffing also tend to produce more gas when warm, making detonations all the more likely. Their gaseous mixtures are lighter than air, allowing them to float. Koffing can also expel these gases when threatened, inducing teary eyes, stuffy noses, and coughing in those exposed to even the most minute amounts. They can also poison attackers; the gases Koffing expel become smellier and more toxic when they are stressed. In cities where they are plentiful, Koffing can create dangerous smog that shrouds the metropolises.

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)
Gyro Ball - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. Gyro Ball can only target faster targets.
Sludge Bomb - Ranged(25ft, 5ft blast) Poison Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Poisoned.
Self-Destruct - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Attack: 1/day 7d20. Set your HP to 0, then roll 1d20. On 10 or less, your HP is set to -100% HP and you must make a death saving throw.

544

In the wild, two Koffing can merge together where two different toxic gases meet into a Weezing, or a Koffing can develop a sort of growth that resembles another Koffing. Each of their heads contains a different poisonous gas. By inflating their heads in an alternating manner, they mix their gases together to form stinkier, more dangerous compounds. They can also worsen the smell and toxicity of their gases by inhaling fumes from industrial waste or absorbing the dust, gases, and germs from garbage. Weezing will make their homes in dirty houses, hiding in attics until the residents leave or fall asleep, at which point they will emerge to feast on their garbage. They also make their homes near factories with large amounts of industrial waste or near the toxic gases above active volcanoes. Though the stench from a thriving Weezing can knock a person out, by diluting it to nearly imperceptible amounts, some companies have been able to create a top-grade perfume. The gas is also highly volatile, meaning their explosive tendencies essentially make them dangerous, floating mines.

Weezing (Heavy Pollution)
Poison / Fairy - Medium (Size), Light (Weight) Hit Points: 42 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Flight, Repulsive

Passives: Levitate, Neutralizing Gas, Misty Surge (As a free action you may deplete one use of Misty Terrain and use Misty Terrain.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)

Strange Steam - Ranged(10ft burst) Fairy Special Attack: 3/ day 3d10. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, any targets are Confused.

Double Hit - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 2d8. Double Hit is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.

Some Weezing populations greatly benefit from being in such pollution heavy environments that they become something that benefits the space they live in. When factories burn enormous volumes of coal and spew tremendous amounts of noxious fumes, it can attract swarms of Koffing to these industrial areas. While these Pokťmon naturally consume toxic gases and incorporate them into their own poisons, these Weezing have evolved a way to sequester toxic compounds from the air in order to more efficiently store them within their bodies. As a miraculous byproduct, these Pokťmon then spew out purified air, as they have no longer have any use for it. These Weezing suck in much more air than normal Weezing, emitting clean air from specialized pipes out of the tops of their heads so it doesn't dilute the pollution they are breathing in at mouth level. Though their toxins are less potent than that of other Weezing, the fumes they do produce linger around their heads and are still strong enough to completely stun opponents.

Misty Terrain - Fairy Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Misty Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Within the Misty terrain, Dragon-type attacks are resisted by anyone who is not already resistant to Dragon-type attacks and afflictions cannot be given to anyone. This terrain disappears after 2 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Amorphous / Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Pollutivore, Habitat - Urban Abandoned / Urban Plants

Evolution: Koffing

Weezing,

From Heavily

Polluted habitat Heavy Pollution Weezing

Proficiencies: Dark (Weezing) / Fairy (Heavy Pollution Weezing) / Fire / Poison

545

Slowpoke / Slowbro (Spice Diet) 
/ Slowking

Slowpoke (Spice Diet)

Psychic - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Swimmer (can swim), Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)
Passives: Own Tempo (You are immune to being Confused.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Yawn - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target falls Asleep after its next turn.

Slowbro (Spice Diet)

Poison / Psychic - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Swimmer, Telekinetic

Passives: Amnesia (+2 Special Defense), Withdraw (+1 Defense), Own Tempo, Quick Draw (1/day, you may give one of your moves priority.), Regenerator (When returned to a Poke Ball, you recover to Max HP after being stored for 1 hour.)

Slowpoke are rather dim and slow; in fact, it can sometimes take them over five seconds to react to pain. These Slowpoke spend most of their lives foraging leaves and roots from spice bushes. The spices mix together within Slowpoke making their bodies taste very unappealing to predators. This is an effective defense mechanism, as they have a hard time escaping pursuit. The brighter the colors on Slowpoke foreheads, the healthier they are and the more potent their latent psychic powers are.

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +5, Effect +1)

Shell Side Arm - Ranged(20ft) Poison Variable Attack: 3/day 3d10. Shell Side Arm's Accuracy Check is made against the target's Defense or Special Defense and Shell Side Arm's Accuracy Check is made with your Attack or Special Attack, both chosen before Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

Water Pulse - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Evolution Shift compatible with Slowpoke family (708)
546

As Slowpoke, their general repulsive taste repels most potential Shellder partners, but once attached, the Shellder changes Slowbro in a unique way. By mixing internal Shellder venoms with the Slowbro diet, Slowbro produces a powerful poisonous projectile that Slowbro can attack others with. Shellder permanently merges onto a Slowbro arm and although it may throw off the balance of a Slowbro, an new way to physically defend itself from others is well worth the lopsided waddle it walks. It can combine both a poisonous projectile with its own psionic prowess. Slowbro is not much brighter than it was as a Slowpoke and still may take a while to realize it should be deploying its defenses.

Slowking (Spice Diet)

Poison / Psychic - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight) Hit Points: 60 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 13

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Intelligence (very smart), Swimmer, Telekinetic

As Slowpoke, their general repulsive taste repels most potential Shellder partners, but once attached, the Shellder changes Slowking in a unique way. By mixing internal Shellder venoms with the Slowking diet, Slowking has its latent intelligence drawn out when Shellder poison races through its brain. While other kinds of Slowking become telepathically capable of communication, this Slowking insists on using its voice, even though others may not understand it. This means that even though Slowking can solve almost any problem presented to it, no one can understand a thing Slowking says.

Passives: Amnesia (+2 Special Defense), Withdraw (+1 Defense), Curious Medicine (Your stats and your adjacent ally's stats cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.), Own Tempo, Regenerator (When returned to a Poke Ball, you recover to Max HP after being stored for 1 hour.)
Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +1)
Water Pulse - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Slack Off - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP.
Eerie Spell - Ranged(30ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the attack last used by the target may not be used again for 1 minute.

Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Water 1, Egg Hatch Rate 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Beaches / Wetlands

Evolution: Slowpoke

Superior Defense Slowbro,

Superior Special Defense Slowking

Proficiencies: Poison (Slowbro and Slowking) / Psychic / Water/ Glutton / Weird

547

Seviper 

Poison - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 14

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Stealth (can make stealth skill checks), Swimmer (can swim), Tracker (can follow scents)
Passives: Coil (+2 Attack, +1 Defense), Swords Dance (+2 Attack), Infiltrator (Hindering terrain and Walls do not affect you or your attacks.), Shed Skin (After acting, you may roll 1d4. On 4, you are cured of any afflictions.)

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)
Swagger - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.

Seviper are covered in scars from feuds with their archnemeses Zangoose. Though Zangoose may be more agile, Seviper are more well-defended; both their fangs and tails can secrete a brutal, incapacitating venom. Their tails are as sharp as swords, capable of slashing into foes while simultaneously injecting their venom. When not hunting or battling with Zangoose, Seviper whet their tail-blades on rocks to sharpen them. Seviper coil their long bodies around prey to crush and suffocate them before slitting their throats with their venomous tails. They can also sink their teeth into the necks of more resilient foes. In battle, they will wield their tails like poisonous daggers. From years of bitter conflict with Zangoose, Seviper have developed regenerative properties that enable them to recover quickly from even the worst slashes. They can heal grazes almost instantly by shedding their skin; deeper gashes take longer to recover from, but still heal very quickly when compared to another Pokťmon.

Poison Fang - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, if you got 10 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Toxified.

Night Slash - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Night Slash is a critical hit.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Carnivore, Habitat - Grasslands Proficiencies: Poison / Fangs / Glutton / Slashing
548

549

Abra / Kadabra / Alakazam 

Abra

Psychic - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 18 Defense: 2 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 2

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Hover (can hover), Telekinetic (can move things with their mind), Telepath (can read minds)

Passives: Synchronize (When you are Burned, Confused, Frozen, Poisoned, Paralyzed, put to Sleep, or Toxified by a foe, the offender is also given the same affliction.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)

Splash - Melee Normal Effect: At-Will. Instead of making an Accuracy Check, roll 1d20. On 18 or higher, all adjacent foes are moved 5 ft away from the user.

Scratch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Teleport - Ranged(50ft) Psychic Effect: 1/day. Teleport may be used as a Reaction. Teleport moves you up to 50ft away in your line of sight. If an enemy would hit you with a move that deals damage, use Teleport as a Reaction to move up to 50ft away in your line of sight and take only 1/4th the damage you would have taken from the attack.

Kadabra

Psychic - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 3 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 13

Abra are notorious for being difficult to catch. They teleport around, and will not hesitate to do so when confronted, teleporting away from potential threats to safety. Trainers must either throw their Pokť Balls immediately or prevent their escapes to catch them. This requires great effort and concentration of psychic energy, often tiring them out. As a result, Abra will sleep up to 10 hours a day. If they do not get enough rest, their psychic powers may be weakened. Even when Abra are asleep, their bodies can still sense impending attacks or danger and warp them away without waking up. They may consequently awaken bewildered by their locations as a result.

Skills: Telekinetic, Telepath

Passives: Calm Mind (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense), Inner Focus (You are immune to being Stunned.), Synchronize

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +6, Effect +5)
Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Disable - Ranged(20ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. For 1 minute, the attack last used by the target may not be used again.
Reflect - Melee Psychic Effect: 3/day. Put a Reflect Coat on the target or yourself. The Coat has the following ability: Reduce damage from attacks that use the attack stat that hit you by 10. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

550

Kadabra no longer need to rest for long periods of time. Their psychic powers increase with adrenaline, so a Kadabra in danger may be able to perform more powerful attacks than usual. These Pokťmon emit strange alpha waves from their brains, which can induce headaches in those around them and cause electronics to malfunction. By staring at their silver spoons, they can focus their energy; without one, their strength is halved. Curiously, this only seems to work with silver, with no other metals being of any use to them. Kadabra alpha waves can cause clocks to run backwards and shadows to appear on televisions. When Kadabra focus on their spoons or close their eyes, the strength of their psychic powers increases.

Alakazam

Psychic - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 15

Skills: Intelligence (very smart), Telekinetic, Telepath

Alakazam are highly intelligent Pokťmon that are capable of unleashing devastating psionic attacks. Their brain cells multiply indefinitely, allowing them to remember everything and calculate difficult equations at speeds rivaling supercomputers. Their huge brains weigh so much that their necks can no longer support them; they must use their psychic powers to support them instead. Older Alakazam have larger heads. Alakazam can close their eyes to increase their strength. They exude so much psychic energy from their brains that those nearby may develop headaches. Their spoons are thought to have been created purely of this energy. An Alakazam can recognize its own spoons from another's; each pair is completely unique. These Pokťmon will gift one of their spoons as a sign of utmost affection. In battle, Alakazam use their intellects to their advantage. They quickly calculate variables.

Passives: Calm Mind, Inner Focus, Magic Guard (Foes can only deal damage to you with attacks that deal damage. You are unaffected by damage from afflictions, coats, hazards, weather or any passives given by foes.), Synchronize
Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +7, Effect +6)
Recover - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP.
Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Future Sight - Ranged(30ft) Psychic Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. When you use this attack you immediately end your turn. In two rounds, select any target within 30ft of you to target with Future Sight then you may roll Future Sight's Accuracy Check and damage.

Biology: Egg Group - Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Urban / Ruins

Evolution: Abra

Kadabra

Alakazam

Proficiencies: Psychic / Energy Blast / Pulse

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 551

Gothita / Gothorita / Gothitelle 

Gothita

Psychic - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)

Passives: Fake Tears (+2 Special Attack), Tickle (+1 Attack, +1 Defense), Competitive (If a foe lowers any of your stats, you have +2 Special Attack until your lowered stats are returned to normal.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +4, Effect +2)

Pound - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Double Slap - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Double Slap has -2 during Accuracy Check. Double Slap is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Gothorita

Psychic - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Telekinetic

Passives: Fake Tears, Tickle, Competitive

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)
Psybeam - Ranged(15ft beam) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Gothita are odd Pokťmon found primarily in run-down areas of human towns and cities. Gothita have extremely long attention spans; when they notice something new, they will stare at it intently for minutes or even hours on end. Gothita sometimes forget to blink as they stare and occasionally even fail to notice when they are being attacked in battle due to how closely they are examining their opponents. Sometimes, these Pokťmon will even stare out into thin air, focusing on what appears to be nothing to most onlookers. They have also been observed mumbling in muted, inaudible tones when doing so. Groups of Gothita are known to congregate around and fixate upon the same spot in the air, leading some to suggest that these Pokťmon may be able to see and talk to things that no other beings can. No scientific studies have successfully proven this theory, however. The bow-like feelers that adorn their heads amplify their psychic powers. If these feelers are disturbed while Gothita are examining something, they will lose their concentration and snap out of their trances.

Shadow Tag - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is bound in place for 2 mins. Ghost Pokťmon are immune to Shadow Tag.

Feint Attack - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense.

552

Gothorita are feared in many rural communities due to the many urban legends surrounding their behavior. Gothorita are nocturnal and are said to derive their psychic powers from starlight and constellations. These Pokťmon will arrange stones to match the positions of the stars overhead and then levitate them in the air. Gothorita sometimes lead people away from their homes and into forests in this manner, wiping their memories along the way. Some anecdotes tell of lonely Gothorita will hypnotize young children while they lay asleep on starry nights, manipulating them to play with the Gothorita as friends.

Gothitelle

Psychic - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 12

Skills: Telekinetic

Passives: Fake Tears, Tickle, Competitive

Gothitelle are respected by people and Pokťmon alike

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +6, Effect +3)

because of their tremendous psychic capabilities. These Pokťmon are amazingly adept at reading star charts and examining the night sky, observing the positions and movements of celestial bodies in order to predict the future. Because of their foresight, people in ancient times used to

Flatter - Ranged(10ft) Dark Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Special Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.
Heal Block - Ranged(30ft burst) Psychic Effect: 1/day. All

consult Gothitelle for warnings. Gothitelle are also capable affected targets cannot be healed or heal for 1 minute.

of momentarily showing cryptic images of their predictions to onlookers by projecting them onto the empty space surrounding them. They can predict the lifespans of other liv-

Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

ing creatures, including those of themselves and their

friends. As a result, despite their great power, Gothitelle are often seen sad or crying because of what they know is ultimately inevitable for both themselves and their loved ones.

Biology: Egg Group - Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Urban Abandoned / Urban

Evolution: Gothita

Gothorita

Gothitelle

Proficiencies: Electric / Psychic / Tricky / Weird

553

Hatenna / Hattrem / Hatterene 

Hatenna

Psychic - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 3

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)

Passives: Play Nice (+1 Defense), Healer (After acting, you may roll 1d20. On 16 or higher, any adjacent allies are cured of all afflictions.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Disarming Voice - Ranged(10ft) Fairy Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.

Life Dew - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Effect: 1/day. You and any allies in range are each healed HP equal to 1/6th of
your Max HP.

Hattrem

Psychic - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Telekinetic, Telepath (can read emotions)

Passives: Play Nice, Healer, Magic Bounce (If you are hit by an attack that does not deal damage, the attacker is instead affected by the effects of their own attack.)

Hatenna make their homes deep within secluded woodlands, preferring isolation whenever possible. This is because the protrusions on their heads can sense emotions like radars, causing the Pokťmon great distress when near sources of intense feeling. This sensory system helps them detect predators who mean them harm well before they draw near. Hatenna seem especially sensitive to the feelings of people, and even more so towards hostile emotions. This has historically made them excellent warning systems for other woodland Pokťmon to signal the approach of human trappers and hunters. When cornered, these Pokťmon will release a burst of psychic energy to stun attackers before fleeing deeper into the wilderness.

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +4, Effect +2)
Aromatherapy - Melee Grass Effect: 3/day. Target an ally or yourself. Target is cured of all afflictions.
Psybeam - Ranged(15ft beam) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Heal Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or yourself. The target is healed HP equal to half of the target's Max HP.

554

Hattrem are highly sensitive to the emotions of surrounding beings. When faced with a surge of passionate emotion, will seek out the source and pummel it violently with their braids. Hattrem also dislike noise and will similarly seek out loudmouths and get them to pipe down, with force if necessary. They can be commonly seen using these braids to support them like legs. They create a quiet, peaceful environment around themselves through such policing action.

Hatterene

Psychic / Fairy - Medium (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 15

Skills: Telekinetic, Telepath

Hatterene are mysterious creatures that only dwell in the deepest parts of the most secluded woodlands. These Pokťmon prefer peace and quiet; while not as sensitive to noise and emotions as Hattrem, they still strongly dislike loud noises and passionate feelings. Pokťmon that dwell near Hatterene know to keep themselves in check, lest they find themselves being ripped into by the claw that grows out of a Hatterene head. Hatterene constantly emit a lowlevel of psychic energy to induce headaches in strangers that come too close to their territory. An unnatural quiet and a tingling sensation in the head is a good sign that a Hatterene is near. If a Hatterene shows a willingness to bargain, one should never renege on the deal. Hatterene will exact terrible vengeance on those that betray them.

Passives: Calm Mind (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense), Play Nice, Healer, Magic Bounce
Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +7, Effect +1)
Magic Powder - Melee Psychic Effect: 3/day. On hit, put a Weird Coat on the target. The Coat has the following ability: You lose your current Types and become only Psychictype for 10 mins.
Psycho Cut - Ranged(20ft) Psychic Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Psycho Cut is a critical hit.
Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Woodlands

Evolution: Hatenna

Hattrem

Hatterene

Proficiencies: Fairy / Psychic / Healer / Spellcraft / Weird

This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2. 555

Solosis / Duosion / Reuniclus 

Solosis

Psychic - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 3

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Hover (can hover), Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)

Passives: Overcoat (You are immune to damage from weather.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +5, Effect +1)
Rollout - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Rollout against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Rollout's damage.
Light Screen - Ranged(30ft) Psychic Effect: 3/day. Place 40ft of contiguous Light Screen Wall. Light Screen Wall is see through, 12 ft tall, and has the following ability: Special Attacks that target through this wall deal 10 less damage. This Wall disappears after 2 mins.
Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Duosion

Psychic - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 13

Skills: Hover, Telekinetic

Passives: Charm (+1 Defense), Magic Guard (Foes can only deal damage to you with attacks that deal damage. You are unaffected by damage from afflictions, coats, hazards, weather or any passives given by foes.), Overcoat

Solosis are a very primitive species, having remained unchanged for thousands, perhaps even millions, of years. They are enormous single-celled organisms that have developed specialized organelles analogous to the more complex organs of multicellular Pokťmon. Their cell membranes enclose their green, gelatinous cytoplasm; the two substances guard Solosis from a staggering range of conditions, allowing them to survive virtually anywhere. Their membranes shield them from radiation and harsh weather, while their cytoplasm regulates their temperature and internal pressure. Solosis have highly-developed, spiralshaped organelles on the left sides of their heads that function like brains. They allow Solosis to wield moderate psychic powers and also enable them to communicate telepathically with others of their kind.

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +6, Effect +1)
Reflect - Melee Psychic Effect: 3/day. Put a Reflect Coat on the target or yourself. The Coat has the following ability: Reduce damage from attacks that use the attack stat that hit you by 10. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.
Psyshock - Ranged(20ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. Psyshock's Accuracy Check is made against the target's Defense.
Pain Split - Melee Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, you and target's current HPs are added together and halved, assigning both you and the target that new value. Neither can have their new HPs be more than their Max.

556

Duosion are still technically a single cell, but because of their arrested development, they sometimes seem to act as two separate beings. This is because they quite literally have two separate brains. The two structures often act independently from one another, forcing Duosion to attempt to execute both actions simultaneously. This usually renders their movements jerky and erratic. Occasionally, both of their brain-like organelles will have the same thought, often due to experiencing a shared threat or initiating an innate reflex. The psychic powers of Duosion are strongest when this occurs as both organelles are able to act in unison rather than independently in order to focus their abilities.

Reuniclus

Psychic - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 66 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 13

Skills: Hover, Telekinetic

Passives: Charm, Magic Guard, Overcoat, Regenerator (When returned to a Poke Ball, you recover to Max HP after being stored for 1 hour.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +6, Effect +1)

Reuniclus are unique in that though they are singlecelled organisms, their organelles have developed so exceptionally that they are able to consciously shape their cell membranes, cytoplasm, and nuclei at will. The brain-like

Dizzy Punch - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

organelles they had as Solosis and Duosion have developed Recover - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP

into networks similar to the nervous systems of multicellu- equal to half of your Max HP.

lar beings. By connecting hands with other Reuniclus, these Pokťmon can also connect their organelle networks and greatly amplify their psychic powers. Their pseudo-nervous

Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

systems enable them to manipulate their membranes and

cytoplasm like quasi-muscular systems; they can grasp objects with their "hands" that, with the aid of psychic power, Biology: Egg Group - Amorphous, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days,

are strong enough to crush boulders. They seem to prefer Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Urban Abandoned / Urban

fighting in this pseudo-physical way, with reinforced punch- Evolution: Solosis es, rather than relying solely on psychokinesis. Reuniclus

Duosion

Reuniclus

are capable of regenerating torn cell membranes and lost Proficiencies: Psychic / Munition / Punches (Reuniclus)

cytoplasm over time; however, damage to their nuclear

membranes or their contents, as well as the organelles

floating in their arms, is almost always permanent. Their

cytoplasm is designed to cushion these vital structures.

557

Ralts / Kirlia / Gardevoir 
/ Gallade

Ralts

Psychic / Fairy - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 18 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 3

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Telekinetic (can move things with their mind), Telepath (can read emotions)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Synchronize (When you are Burned, Confused, Frozen, Poisoned, Paralyzed, put to Sleep, or Toxified by a foe, the offender is also given the same affliction.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Teleport - Ranged(50ft) Psychic Effect: 1/day. Teleport may be used as a Reaction. Teleport moves you up to 50ft away in your line of sight. If an enemy would hit you with a move that deals damage, use Teleport as a Reaction to move up to 50ft away in your line of sight and take only 1/4th the damage you would have taken from the attack.
Magical Leaf - Ranged(25ft) Grass Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.

Kirlia

Psychic / Fairy - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Telekinetic

Passives: Growl, Telepath, Synchronize

Ralts live in urban areas around humans. The horns on their heads allow them to sense the emotions of those around them. They are extremely timid, rarely appearing to people and spending most of their time in hiding. Ralts emulate the emotions they sense around them; if they feel happiness, they also become happy. If they feel anger or fear, they begin feeling similarly as well, and will flee to prevent such negative emotions from overpowering them. As such, Ralts will only appear in front of cheerful people and Pokťmon. Their body temperatures also slightly correlate with the feelings around them, warming up when around joy but cooling down around anger. When Ralts experience strong emotions, they may begin to visibly shiver. The horns on their heads may also glow slightly.

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Heal Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or yourself. The target is healed HP equal to half of the target's Max HP.
Draining Kiss - Melee Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Hypnosis - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Effect: 3/day. Hypnosis has -4 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is put Asleep.

558

Kirlia draw their power from positive emotions. They become more graceful and powerful the more often they are exposed to positive feelings. When happy, they will dance and twirl to amuse those around them. Kirlia are highly intelligent, with well-developed brains capable of harnessing respectable psychokinetic powers from the emotions around them. The horns on their heads concentrate their powers, allowing them to distort the space around them and create visual mirages. When around particularly happy individuals, Kirlia can even rip small holes in time itself and discern brief glimpses of the future; such a task, however, requires great skill and very passionate emotions, making it difficult for them to pull it off repeatedly.

Gardevoir

Psychic / Fairy - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 12

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 13

Skills: Flight (can fly), Telekinetic, Telepath (can read minds)

Passives: Growl, Synchronize, Telepathy (Your allies within 25ft do not harm you when the ally is using attacks that have an area of effect.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +6, Effect +4)

Wish - Melee Normal Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or yourself. After the target acts during the next round, they are healed HP equal to half of the target's Max HP.

Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Moonblast - Ranged(20ft) Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2.

Gardevoir are oddly not affected by gravity, using their psychic powers to counteract it; though they have legs, they float rather than walk. They are enormously loyal to their allies and will do everything in their power to protect them. They are able to see into the future, but the image they view is not always clear. Their attacks strengthen with the need they feel to protect their allies; thus, their strongest techniques can only be used in dire situations. Gardevoir are very wary of trusting strangers, but will develop the same loyalty they show to their family or trainers they bond with to those who show similar compassion and optimism.

Gallade

Psychic / Fighting - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 12

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Telekinetic, Telepath

Passives: Growl, Justified (When a foe hits you with a Darktype attack, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.), Steadfast (When you are Stunned, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins.), Synchronize

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.

Biology: Egg Group - Human-Like / Amorphous, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Urban
Evolution: Ralts Kirlia Gardevoir,
Dawn Stone Gallade

Psycho Cut - Ranged(20ft) Psychic Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Psycho Cut is a critical hit.
Close Combat - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Defense and Special Defense are -2 for 10 mins.

Proficiencies: Fairy (Gardevoir) / Fighting (Gallade) / Psychic / Energy Blast (Gardevoir) / Slashing (Gallade)

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2.

559

Chingling can be found hopping around on the ground

Gallade are known for their combative capabilities and or in the treetops. They have orbs in the backs of their

chivalry. Many refuse to attack foes weaker than them un- mouths that they can use to produce a ringing sound. As

less they have some sort of handicap to make the fights

they move about, the orbs collide with the sides of their

fair. They hold honor in the highest regard and will gra-

mouths, creating the distinctive, high-pitched ring recog-

ciously accept losses as long as they fought courageously. nized as their cries. Due to their body structure, they can

Gallade will always fight for what they believe is right, no resonate sound for long periods of time; once they begin

matter what the cost. They are very loyal and will gladly lay crying, they will continue ringing for over fifteen minutes.

down their lives to protect their allies. In combat, they ex- By altering the shape of their mouths, Chingling can change

tend the blades on their elbows and brandish them like

the pitch of their cries. The sound can be melodious and

swords, using these blades to both slash at foes and parry pleasing when they are happy, but earsplittingly sharp if

incoming attacks. They will fight most valiantly when de-

they feel threatened. In battle, Chingling cry loudly at very

fending someone they love. Due to their gallantry, Gallade high frequencies to disorient foes. They can reach ultrason-

will never slay foes in combat under normal circumstances. Wild Gallade will roam the land, searching for opportunities to defend those in need.

ic pitches that the human ear cannot detect. Chingling communicate through different volumes and pitches of their cries. The sound of many Chingling crying at once in a large squabble is said to be one of the most discordant sounds

known to man.

560

Chingling / Chimecho 

Chingling

Psychic - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 3

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Hover (can hover), Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Levitate (You are immune to Ground-type moves while you are airborne.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Wrap - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 physical damage on its turns.

Astonish - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Chimecho become active in warm weather, flying around on gentle breezes. In cooler temperatures, they rest by using the suction cups on their heads to attach to the undersides of tree branches or the eaves of buildings. They also do this in strong winds to prevent themselves from blowing away. Thanks to their light weight, they can travel far distances on the wind alone. Chimecho defend themselves from enemies by letting loose psychic waves to knock foes away. To deter attackers, they emit cries that echo inside their bodies and sound like beautifully ethereal wind chimes. The sound unsettles foes with its unnaturalness, keeping them at bay. Their tails are prehensile; they use them to pick up nuts and Berries from bushes to eat. They communicate using seven different tones of their signature cry. They have an affinity for areas said to have high levels of supernatural activity. Chimecho have the power to heal others with their psychic powers in combination with their beautiful songs.

Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Chimecho

Psychic - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Flight (can fly), Telekinetic

Passives: Growl, Levitate

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)
Extrasensory - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Heal Bell - Ranged(10ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. You and all allies within range are cured of all afflictions.

Biology: Egg Group - Amorphous, Egg Hatch Rate - 13 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Grasslands / Mountains / Urban Burial

Healing Wish - Melee Psychic Effect: 1/day. Your HP is set to 0, then target ally is healed to Max HP and cured of any afflictions.

Evolution: Chingling

Chimecho

Proficiencies: Psychic / Healer (Chimecho) / Sound

561

Drowzee / Hypno 

Drowzee

Psychic - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Mind Lock (mind can't be read), Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)

Passives: Insomnia (You are immune to being put to Sleep.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Hypnosis - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Effect: 3/day. Hypnosis has -4 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is put Asleep.
Pound - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Hypno

Psychic - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 12

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Mind Lock, Telekinetic

Passives: Inner Focus (You are immune to being Stunned.), Insomnia

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)
Headbutt - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Disable - Ranged(20ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. For 1 minute, the attack last used by the target may not be used again.
Zen Headbutt - Melee Psychic Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Drowzee consume dreams--especially those of young children and Pokťmon. For this reason, they can sometimes be found lurking outside daycares or kindergartens during naptime. They are also skilled in hypnotism, putting people and Pokťmon to sleep to consume their dreams. Drowzee rarely live near people, however, preferring to feed on the dreams of Pokťmon in the grasslands that they call home. They get sick from bad dreams, so they use their noses to differentiate between good dreams and nightmares.

Biology: Egg Group - Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore / Psiotroph, Habitat - Forests / Grasslands / Jungles / Savannas

Evolution: Drowzee

Hypno

Proficiencies: Psychic / Hexwork / Weird

562

Tales of Hypno hypnotizing and kidnapping children run

rampant. Luckily, Hypno only prey on dreams, so captives

Elgyem are the focus of many conspiracy theories involv-

generally return physically unharmed. Their swinging pen- ing space travel and extraterrestrials. Many connect their

dulums cause drowsiness even in onlookers that have just original discovery in the early 1950s to a purported terres-

awoken. The longer one stares at the mesmerizing oscilla- trial crash. While many amateur UFO enthusiasts have took

tions, the longer the effect last. Hypno polish their pendulums constantly with their manes. The swinging of a Hypno pendulum transfixes all that see it. As a result, it oftentimes takes an outside force, such as another person, to push victims away.

it upon themselves to research the origins of Elgyem, no concrete evidence has been found pointing to them originating from outer space. These Pokťmon appear to communicate by flashing the lights on their hands. They seem to be highly inquisitive about novel objects, examining and playing with them using their psychokinetic powers.

Though not inherently aggressive, Elgyem will use their

powerful psychic abilities to give foes crippling headaches

when threatened. Those afflicted often wake up with no

memory of what had occurred.

563

Elgyem / Beheeyem 

Elgyem

Psychic - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Flight (can fly), Telekinetic (can move things with their mind), Telepath (can read minds)

Passives: Telepathy (Your allies within 25ft do not harm you when the ally is using attacks that have an area of effect.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +1)
Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Heal Block - Ranged(30ft burst) Psychic Effect: 1/day. All affected targets cannot be healed or heal for 1 minute.
Headbutt - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Beheeyem

Psychic - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 14

Skills: Flight, Telekinetic, Telepath

Passives: Calm Mind (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense), Analytic (When attacking a foe who has already acted this round, deal +4 damage.), Synchronize (When you are Burned, Confused, Frozen, Poisoned, Paralyzed, put to Sleep, or Toxified by a foe, the offender is also given the same affliction.) Telepathy

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +7, Effect +2)
Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Beheeyem are very rarely reported in the wild; they tend to be reclusive and shy away from human contact. It is difficult for researchers to even estimate the number of wild Beheeyem--using their psychic powers in tandem with the flashing lights on their hands, these Pokťmon are able to manipulate the recent memories of others; they appear to erase the memories of those that encounter them. Beheeyem are fond of visiting rural areas, especially wheat fields and pastures; it is said that when a lone Pokťmon disappears from a farm, a Beheeyem is the culprit.

Biology: Egg Group - Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Deserts / Ruins

Evolution: Elgyem

Beheeyem

Proficiencies: Psychic / Energy Blast / Weird

Recover - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP.

Wonder Room - Psychic Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Wonderful Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Anyone who attacks within the Wonderful terrain makes Attack Accuracy Checks against Special Defense and Special Attack Accuracy Checks against Defense. This terrain disappears after 2 mins.

564

Flittle / Espathra 

Due to their bright colorations, Flittle are a striking contrast to the desolate wastelands and deserts that they call home. These Pokťmon levitate with their toes just barely off of the ground using psychic energy emitted from the frills on their bellies; they do not emit enough energy to truly take off in flight. They zip around in search of Berries, which can be tough to come by in their barren habitats. Although they appear docile, Flittle are in fact vindictive Pokťmon. They will hunt down those who steal their Berries with unwavering determination. As Flittle levitate, their frills undulate in a mesmerizing fashion that can entrance onlookers. When threatened, Flittle will first attempt to entrance their attackers by displaying and ruffling their frills. Then, if they judge that they can defeat their opponents, they will attack; otherwise, they will dash away with great speed while their foes are immobilized.

Biology: Egg Group - Flying, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Badlands / Deserts / Mountains

Evolution: Flittle

Espathra

Proficiencies: Fairy / Psychic / Avian

Flittle

Psychic - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 18 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Hover (can hover), Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)

Passives: Baby-Doll Eyes (+1 Defense), Speed Boost (+2 Speed)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +5)
Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Disarming Voice - Ranged(10ft) Fairy Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.
Peck - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Espathra

Psychic - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 13 (65 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Telekinetic, Telepath (can read minds)

Passives: Calm Mind (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense), Feather Dance (+2 Defense), Speed Boost

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +6)
Dazzling Gleam - Ranged(15ft, 10ft wave) Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 3d8.
Lumina Crash - Ranged(30ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -2 for 10 mins.
Uproar - Ranged(20ft burst) Normal Special Attack: 1/day 3d10. Uproar is a three-turn move. On each of its turns, you can move normally, then roll Uproar's accuracy check and damage. Sleeping Pokťmon within range of Uproar are awoken and Pokťmon cannot go to Sleep within Uproar's range.

565

Espathra are well-known for their sophisticated

Mime Jr. can be found wandering through crowded

appearances. It is less known, however, that these

streets in urban areas. They are notable for relying heavily

Pokťmon tend to be quite ruthless in personalities. As food is hard to come by in their barren habitats, Espathra are opportunists that will not hesitate to exploit the vulnerabilities of other Pokťmon in order to obtain resources. Espathra can emit intense psychic energy from

on humans, performing in front of audiences in exchange for food. They are can be mimics, potentially able to perfect copying the facial expressions and body movements of people and Pokťmon. By doing so, they are also able to gain insight into their emotions; Mime Jr. may take advantage of this by focusing on more benevolent,

their large eyes, which immobilizes foes exposed to it. Once compassionate spirits during their performances in hopes

they are frozen in place, they are at the their mercy. These of earning more food. However, they make mistakes often,

Pokťmon also radiate energy from the gaps between their which will break the illusion. If attacked, they will mimic

multicolored frills. By undulating these frills, Espathra can foes to confuse them, fleeing before they have a chance to

captivate onlookers even as they simply pass by. Espathra react. One may occasionally find Mime Jr. scavenging

are incredibly fast runners that can sprint at great speeds. through dumpsters in search of food; these Pokťmon are

Because of this, they are particularly fond of hit-and-run known to raid trash bins when they fail to earn enough

tactics. When they spot other Pokťmon with food, they will through performing.

rush in, freeze them in place, and then make off with their

catches while leaving their victims empty-handed.

566

Mime Jr. / Mr. Mime 

Mime Jr.

Psychic / Fairy - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 12 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)

Passives: Meditate (+1 Attack), Soundproof (You are immune to sound-based attacks.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)
Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Double Slap - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Double Slap has -2 during Accuracy Check. Double Slap is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Encore - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. If the target can, it must use the last move it did for the next 3 rounds or until it no longer can.

Mr. Mime are masters in the art of pantomiming. They can often be seen performing in the streets of cities and towns, where they mime in exchange for food. Mr. Mime are exceptionally adept at creating false walls, pretending to be trapped behind invisible barriers using their hands. However, they have the ability to solidify these walls with a peculiar force emitted from their fingertips, all the while keeping them transparent. Their fingers can vibrate, slow, and then stop air, creating completely invisible walls. Interrupting a performing Mr. Mime is extremely rude; they will not hesitate to discipline troublemakers by using slapping them.

Biology: Egg Group - Human-Like, Egg Hatch Rate - 13 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Mountain / Urban

Evolution: Mime Jr.

Mr. Mime

Proficiencies: Fairy (Mr. Mime) / Psychic / Weird

Mr. Mime

Psychic / Fairy - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 12

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Telekinetic

Passives: Barrier (+2 Defense), Meditate, Filter (Supereffective attacks against you deal ≠4 damage after applying weakness.), Soundproof, Technician (When rolling damage, replace any rolled 1s or 2s with 3.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)
Light Screen - Ranged(30ft) Psychic Effect: 3/day. Place 40ft of contiguous Light Screen Wall. Light Screen Wall is see through, 12 ft tall, and has the following ability: Special Attacks that target through this wall deal 10 less damage. This Wall disappears after 2 mins.
Reflect - Melee Psychic Effect: 3/day. Put a Reflect Coat on the target or yourself. The Coat has the following ability: Reduce damage from attacks that use the attack stat that hit you by 10. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.
Psybeam - Ranged(15ft beam) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Evolution Shift compatible with Mime Jr. family (412)
567

Munna / Musharna 

Munna

Psychic - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 2 (20 ft.) Attack: 3

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Hover (can hover)

Passives: Defense Curl (+1 Defense), Synchronize (When you are Burned, Confused, Frozen, Poisoned, Paralyzed, put to Sleep, or Toxified by a foe, the offender is also given the same affliction.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +3, Effect +1)

Psybeam - Ranged(15ft beam) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Lucky Chant - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 3/day. Put a Lucky Coat on all allies and yourself. The Coat has the following ability: If you are hit by a Critical Hit, treat the hit as a regular successful hit. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.
Yawn - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target falls Asleep after its next turn.

Musharna

Psychic - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 72 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 3 (20 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 11

Munna feed on the dreams of people and Pokťmon alike. They rest in abandoned buildings during the day, cloaking themselves in soporific mists as protection. At night, they wander about houses in search of sleeping individuals, siphoning their dreams into the holes on their snouts. Their floral patterns light up as they feed. This process is entirely harmless, though these individuals will wake up unable to remember exactly what they dreamt of. Once Munna consume what they can of the dreams, they then process the remaining substance into a sleep-inducing fog that they use to protect themselves from predators. If the dreams they consumed were pleasant, then the mist will be bright pink in color and dissipate fairly quickly once released. Munna that siphon nightmares, however, will expel thick, grayish-purple or black mist and will likely become ill.

Skills: Hover, Telekinetic (can move things with their mind), Telepath (can read minds)
Passives: Defense Curl, Synchronize, Telepathy (Your allies within 25ft do not harm you when the ally is using attacks that have an area of effect.)
Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +1)
Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Dream Eater - Melee Psychic Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Dream Eater can only hit Sleeping targets. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Moonblast - Ranged(20ft) Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Herbivore / Psiotroph, Habitat - Urban Abandoned / Urban

Evolution: Munna

Moon Stone Musharna

Proficiencies: Psychic / Energy Blast

568

Musharna sleep through the day, only becoming active in the moonlight. Even then, they seem to float in states of half-consciousness, with their eyes remaining closed as they wander about. They very much dislike being disturbed from their slumbers. Musharna consume the dreams of people and Pokťmon through the holes on their forehead. However, their mist is far more powerful and concentrated than that of Munna. Gazing closely at their mist will reveal fragments of the dreams the Musharna had consumed. Depending on the dreams eaten, their mists can take a variety colors, though pink is the most common. Dark, sooty Dream Mist is said to be especially dangerous. When threatened, Musharna can manipulate their mist to create illusory manifestations of the objects, people, and Pokťmon within the dreams they had eaten. The figures created are often indistinguishable from real ones, though they last for only moments.

Because their wings are not yet fully developed, Natu are unable to fly, spending most of their time hopping and skipping around on the ground. They forage for food in shrubs and bushes, occasionally climbing onto branches to peck at shoots. Natu are also fond of cactus plants and can deftly hop between spines to reach the fruit of these plants without injuring themselves. They have surprisingly powerful legs and can launch themselves from the ground into the branches of trees. Natu never blink; they have the habit of staring at objects motionlessly for long periods of time until the objects stir. Natu are also very cautious Pokťmon. Some believe that this is due in part to their supposed future-seeing, prophetic abilities. When large flocks of Natu flee from an area, people will begin preparing for imminent flash floods or earthquakes.

569

Natu / Xatu 

Natu

Psychic / Flying - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Early Bird (You roll twice during checks to wake from Sleep and use the higher result.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)
Peck - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Confuse Ray - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target becomes Confused.
Teleport - Ranged(50ft) Psychic Effect: 1/day. Teleport may be used as a Reaction. Teleport moves you up to 50ft away in your line of sight. If an enemy would hit you with a move that deals damage, use Teleport as a Reaction to move up to 50ft away in your line of sight and take only 1/4th the damage you would have taken from the attack.

Xatu

Psychic / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Flight (can fly), Telekinetic

Passives: Leer, Early Bird, Magic Bounce (If you are hit by an attack that does not deal damage, the attacker is instead affected by the effects of their own attack.), Synchronize (When you are Burned, Confused, Frozen, Poisoned, Paralyzed, put to Sleep, or Toxified by a foe, the offender is also given the same affliction.)

Xatu are mystic Pokťmon that have played prominent roles in the myths involving their ability to see through time. Xatu are believed to see the past through their left eyes and the future through their right ones. These Pokťmon often remain motionless, peering into the past and future of whatever place they have posted themselves. On the rare occasions that Xatu do move, they simply will raise their wings in patterns to communicate. When moving, they rise and glide with little effort of their wings, instead using their psychic powers to move from place to place.

Biology: Egg Group - Flying, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Deserts / Forests / Jungles

Evolution: Natu

Xatu

Proficiencies: Flying / Ghost / Psychic / Avian / Winged

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)
Air Slash - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. Air Slash has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Future Sight - Ranged(30ft) Psychic Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. When you use this attack you immediately end your turn. In two rounds, select any target within 30ft of you to target with Future Sight then you may roll Future Sight's Accuracy Check and damage.

570

Ponyta / Rapidash (Forest Glade) 

Ponyta (Forest Glade)
Psychic - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 30 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7
Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 10 Special Attack: 7
Skills: Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)
Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Run Away (+1 Speed), Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Pastel Veil (You and your allies within 10ft of you are immune to being Poisoned or Toxified.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +5)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Fairy Wind - Ranged(20ft) Fairy Special Attack: At-Will 1d12.

Rapidash (Forest Glade)

Isolated Ponyta populations sheltered in quiet forest glades have very vibrant and colorful manes. Ponyta are thought to absorb life energy from the world around them, storing it in their manes; these manes will shimmer with colorful sparkles once they hold enough energy. These Pokťmon congregate in areas imbued with life energy. Ponyta can share their energy by rubbing their horns on others, healing them of injuries and curing them of poisons. However, they are said to be able to see right into the hearts of others by looking into their eyes. They will flee from those who possess impure hearts, and only heal those who are virtuous in mind and spirit.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Herbivore, Habitat - Forest / Woodlands

Evolution: Ponyta

Rapidash

Proficiencies: Fairy / Psychic / Horned / Spellcraft

Psychic / Fairy - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)
Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8
Speed: 13 (65 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 8
Skills: Telekinetic
Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Growl, Tail Whip, Pastel Veil
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +4, Effect +6)
Heal Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or yourself. The target is healed HP equal to half of the target's Max HP.
Dazzling Gleam - Ranged(15ft, 10ft wave) Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 3d8.
Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Evolution Shift compatible with Ponyta family (289)
571

Rapidash dwell only in the deepest parts of woodlands

imbued with life energy and untouched by civilization.

Rufflet can be found in coniferous forests near wetlands.

Rapidash are known for their pride and bravery. Storing

Though they appear weak, Rufflet are in fact very

psychic energy in their manes and fetlocks, they empower courageous and resilient. For the first few weeks of their

their steps so that they barely even touch the ground while lives, Rufflet are fed by their parents. Afterwards, however,

galloping; it is said these Pokťmon appear as if they are

they are pushed out of their nests to forage for food,

running on air. Rapidash are said to only appear to two

though they return afterwards. They use their strong talons

types of people and Pokťmon. To those who are pure of to grasp and crack hard nuts and Berries as well as peck at

heart, they will show themselves in moments of peril to

prey; they prefer meat and seafood, but they cannot always

heal them of their wounds and aid them on their quests. To obtain it easily. Their powerful legs and claws do enable

those who have dark souls and intend to cause the woodlands harm, however, they will use their energyinfused horns to swiftly cut them down; it is said that their powerful horns can punch holes through metal.

them to crack the carapaces of unfortunate prey, however. While on their own, they must fend for themselves against predators. Rufflet will fearlessly stand their ground against foes much stronger than themselves. They are even known to initiate battles with larger Pokťmon when unprovoked,

though they will often begin crying if they lose. Rufflet

become stronger through this frequent fighting. As they

continue to grow, Rufflet will leave their nests for longer

and longer periods of time, until one day they simply do

not return.

572

Rufflet / Braviary (Tundra) 

Rufflet

Normal / Flying - Small (Size), Light (Weight) Hit Points: 42 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Hone Claws (+2 Attack), Keen Eye (Your accuracy checks cannot be negatively affected by foes.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Fury Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Fury Attack has -2 during Accuracy Check. Fury Attack is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Wing Attack - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d8.
Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.

Braviary (Tundra)

Tundra-dwelling Braviary spend most of their year deep into frozen wastelands and seas; they migrate into warmer regions during the winter months. Larger than their relatives, these Pokťmon have adapted to life in the cold through a thicker layer of feathers and a heightened ability to detect scarce resources. These Braviary possess psychic abilities that they utilize as a sixth sense. They scan far below the murky surface of estuaries for prey, deeper than vision can penetrate. Then, they blast the water with psychic waves, shocking their quarry and letting them float to the surface before they feast. Braviary can also enter a trance-like state to increase their psychic abilities and harness them to strengthen their physical attacks. Before these Pokťmon leave their nests to hunt, they let loose eerie, bloodcurdling screeches that can be heard for miles. These Braviary are even more solitary than their relatives, only meeting to mate; their barren habitats do not provide sufficient resources for cooperation.

Psychic / Flying - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 66 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Flight, Guster (can produce wind)

Passives: Hone Claws, Tailwind (+2 Speed), Defiant (If a foe lowers any of your stats, you have +2 Attack until your lowered stats are returned to normal.), Keen Eye, Sheer Force (Your attacks that have additional effects that affect the target may deal +4 damage, but will not have those additional effects.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)

Roost - Self Flying Effect: 1/day. You must be on the ground to use Roost. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP. You lose Flying-type until your next turn.

Brave Bird - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

Biology: Egg Group - Flying, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Wetlands / Tundra

Evolution: Rufflet

Raised in Tundra Braviary

Esper Wing - Ranged(30ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, during your next action if you attack a foe, your move has priority.

Proficiencies: Fighting / Flying / Psychic (Braviary Tundra) / Avian / Winged

Evolution Shift compatible with Rufflet family (482)

573

Spoink / Grumpig 

Spoink

Psychic - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 3

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)

Passives: Own Tempo (You are immune to being Confused.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Splash - Melee Normal Effect: At-Will. Instead of making an Accuracy Check, roll 1d20. On 18 or higher, all adjacent foes are moved 5 ft away from the user.

Psybeam - Ranged(15ft beam) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Bounce - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Bounce is a twoturn move. On the first turn, raise yourself 40 ft into the air. On the second turn, return to the ground, move up to twice your movement rate, then you may roll Bounce's Accuracy Check and damage. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Grumpig

Psychic - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Telekinetic

Passives: Own Tempo, Thick Fat (You take -4 damage from Fire-type attacks and Ice-type attacks.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +4, Effect +4)
Teeter Dance - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, all targets are Confused.

Spoink are found in mountainous areas near the sea. They wear discarded pearls that have washed ashore. Spoink use their pearls to focus their psychokinetic powers; the larger the pearls, the more power they can harness. Thus, they are constantly searching for bigger pearls. Spoink use their tails as springs to bounce around. The shocks from their rhythmic bouncing force their hearts to pump blood through their bodies. Spoink even will bounce in place when sleeping. Their favorite food is underground truffles. However, they are physically ill-suited for digging them out. Luckily for them, Spoink possess mild powers of manipulation, persuading other Pokťmon to dig them for them in return for a share of the meal. If Spoink drop their pearls, they grow tired and lose their abilities. They also will bounce more erratically without the extra weight. They will compulsively steal round objects and place them on their heads until they can find new pearls.

Zen Headbutt - Melee Psychic Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Power Gem - Ranged(20ft) Rock Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Beaches / Mountains

Evolution: Spoink

Grumpig

Proficiencies: Psychic / Elemental Attack E

574

Grumpig can sometimes be seen bouncing on their tails. Grumpig possess the ability to slightly manipulate another Pokťmon. Using the black pearls on their bodies to focus their powers, Grumpig can make others nearby dizzy and disoriented. While doing so, they also perform strange, exotic step-dances of sorts that involve hopping from foot to foot and spinning around. They can focus their energy from their pearls, with only one or two glowing when not using a lot of power, and all three glowing when using a lot of psychic power. Without their three pearls, Grumpig are powerless, so they will defend their pearls with their lives.

Woobat have very poor eyesight; shaggy fur covers their near-useless eyes as a result. Instead of sight, Woobat rely on echolocation to find their way around. Curiously, they emit ultrasonic waves from their noses rather than their mouths, as they have sound-producing organs used exclusively for echolocation located within their heartshaped nostrils. Woobat roost by attaching their noses to the walls of caves, using their nostrils as suction cups. When they fly away, they leave behind distinctive heartshaped marks on walls. Woobat are friendly Pokťmon, and curious ones as well. Many of them can be seen flitting around spelunkers that enter their caverns, probing the travelers with their sound waves and noses.

575

Woobat / Swoobat 

Woobat

Psychic / Flying - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Flight (can fly), Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)

Passives: Cute Charm (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Infatuate the attacker.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Gust - Ranged(20ft) Flying Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. If the target is at least 20 ft off the ground airborne, Gust deals +1d20 damage.

Assurance - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target was already attacked this round, Assurance deals +1d8 damage.

Swoobat

Psychic / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Flight, Telekinetic

Passives: Calm Mind (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense), Cute Charm

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +5)

Swoobat have sound-producing organs in their noses that can produce a large range of frequencies. Depending on the situation, they can alter the pitch and volume of their sound waves to achieve a variety of effects. Most of the time, these Pokťmon use their waves to navigate; however, when threatened, they can instead produce frequencies capable of slashing through the air. Releasing such strong sound pulses tires them out quickly, however, rendering them temporarily unable to fly. By shaking their tails vigorously, they can further increase the power of their waves. Despite their destructive potential, however, Swoobat rarely ever need to resort to using such attacks. They are very friendly Pokťmon that are almost always found in pairs. In battle, Swoobat are known to use their innocent demeanors to their advantages, using their suction cup-like noses to attack foes while their guards are lowered.

Heart Stamp - Melee Psychic Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Air Slash - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. Air Slash has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Flying, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Caves / Forests

Evolution: Woobat

Swoobat

Proficiencies: Flying / Psychic / Winged

Attract - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Infatuated with you.

576

Wynaut / Wobbuffet 

Wynaut

Psychic - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 2

Special Attack: 2

Skills: -

Passives: Charm (+1 Defense), Telepathy (Your allies within 25ft do not harm you when the ally is using attacks that have an area of effect.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +1, Effect +1)

Encore - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. If the target can, it must use the last move it did for the next 3 rounds or until it no longer can.

Shadow Tag - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is bound in place for 2 mins. Ghost Pokťmon are immune to Shadow Tag.

Wynaut are constantly smiling regardless of how they are feeling. Rather than frowning to express anger, they will slap their tails repeatedly on the ground to show displeasure. They live in large herds, traveling while huddled as close together as possible. They only become active at night, spending the day sleeping in dark caves. When the sun sets, they will emerge from their caves to play in the moonlight. The enjoy squeezing up against other Wynaut to increase their own endurance. Wynaut enjoy eating fruit, picking them off of trees using their ear-like arms.

Safeguard - Ranged(10ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Put a Safe Coat on all allies and yourself. The Coat has the following ability: You cannot become afflicted. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

Wobbuffet

Psychic - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 114 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 3

Special Attack: 3

Biology: Egg Group - Amorphous, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Skills: -

Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Caves / Forests

Passives: Charm, Telepathy

Evolution: Wynaut

Wobbuffet

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +1, Effect +1)

Proficiencies: Weird / No moves from Any

Counter - Melee Fighting Effect: 1/day. Counter is used as a Reaction. After an enemy hits you with a melee Attack move that deals damage, use Counter to deal exactly twice the damage to the enemy that you received. Do not apply weakness or resistances.

Mirror Coat - Ranged(40ft) Psychic Effect: 1/day. Mirror Coat is used as a Reaction. After an enemy hits you with a ranged Special Attack move that deals damage, use Mirror Coat to deal exactly twice the damage to the enemy that you received. Do not apply weakness or resistances.

Destiny Bond - Self Ghost Effect: 1/day. If you are knocked out before your next turn, the offender who caused you to get knocked out has its HP set to 0.

577

Espurr prefer to live alone, away from other Pokťmon and people, even fellow Espurr and Meowstic. For this reason, they tend to inhabit abandoned human settlements or the tall grass of fields, where they can remain hidden. These Pokťmon are rather quiet and unassuming, saving for their unnerving glares; however, their ears disguise two eye-like psychic organs that can potentially unleash enough energy to attack everything around them. Espurr cannot control this power, which is automatically let loose when they raise their ears. When frightened, though, Espurr may raise their ears in shock.

Wobbuffet almost never attack foes without provocation. In fact, they prefer to avoid confrontation entirely, sheltering themselves away from most other Pokťmon. They hate light and shock, living in dark caves and forests that receive almost no light at all. When Wobbuffet are attacked, they inflate themselves and counter; even so, they won't attack again unless their foes are unwise enough to attack twice. Their unconfrontational natures can have rather humorous side effects. Wobbuffet are territorial Pokťmon, but will refuse to attack unless struck first. Thus, when two Wobbuffet meet, they will have a stand-off of sorts, refusing to budge before the other. Such duels quickly become fasting contests. One notable exception to their passiveness is when it comes to defending their tails. They will ferociously attack anyone who threatens them and will go to great lengths to keep them concealed in darkness.

Meowstic exhibit dimorphism, with males being mostly blue and females being primarily white. These Pokťmon also attack in different ways, with males tending towards defensive moves and females gravitating towards offensive ones. Upon evolution from Espurr, Meowstic gain full control over their eye-like psychic organs. By unfolding their ears, they can unveil these organs and unleash enough energy to pulverize foes. Meowstic must keep a close eye on their ears and keep them sealed as tight as possible, as even a slight relaxation can allow a significant amount of energy to leak out. Though they have better control of their powers, Meowstic still tend to avoid contact with others in fear of causing unnecessary harm. Their fingertips conceal sharp claws. These Pokťmon partner for life; females venture out in search for food while males stay behind to care for the young-- fitting based upon their varying battle styles. Males tend to be protective and easygoing, while females generally are more aggressive and short-tempered; female Meowstic are known to be vindictive towards those that anger them.

578

Espurr / Meowstic 

Meowstic

Psychic - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Mind Lock, Telekinetic

Espurr

Psychic - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Mind Lock (mind can't be read), Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Keen Eye (Your accuracy checks cannot be negatively affected by foes.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)
Scratch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Covet - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, steals the target's held item, if any.
Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Passives: Charm (+1 Defense), Leer, Infiltrator (Hindering terrain and Walls do not affect you or your attacks.), Keen Eye, Prankster (Your attacks that do not deal damage on hit have Priority.)
Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +5)
Reflect - Melee Psychic Effect: 3/day. Put a Reflect Coat on the target or yourself. The Coat has the following ability: Reduce damage from attacks that use the attack stat that hit you by 10. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.
Fake Out - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 2d6. Fake Out has Priority. Fake Out can only be used as your first action during an encounter. On hit, the target is Stunned.
Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Passives: Charm, Leer, Competitive (If a foe lowers any of your stats, you have +2 Special Attack until your lowered stats are returned to normal.) Infiltrator, Keen Eye
Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +5)
Shadow Ball - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Signal Beam - Ranged(15ft beam) Bug Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Confused.
Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Fields / Urban Abandoned

Evolution: Espurr

Meowstic

Proficiencies: Psychic / Weird

579

Indeedee 

Psychic / Normal - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 36 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 11 Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 7 Special Attack: 12 Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 12 Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 6 Special Attack: 11

Skills: Intelligence (very smart), Telekinetic (can move things with their mind), Telepath (can read minds)

Passives: Calm Mind (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense), Play Nice (+1 Defense), Inner Focus [Male] (You are immune to being Stunned.), Own Tempo [Female] (You are immune to being Confused.), Psychic Surge (As a free action you may deplete one use of Psychic Terrain and use Psychic Terrain.), Synchronize (When you are Burned, Confused, Frozen, Poisoned, Paralyzed, put to Sleep, or Toxified by a foe, the offender is also given the same affliction.)
Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +6/+5, Effect +5/+4)
Helping Hand - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. Target ally's next attack during this round will deal +1d20 damage.
Disarming Voice - Ranged(10ft) Fairy Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.
Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Trained Indeedee are commonly employed in various positions of the service industry. These Pokťmon feed on positive emotions, sending and absorbing them through their horns. As such, they find it quite convenient that humans tend to congregate in cities and experience relief and gratitude when services are performed for them. In the wild, Indeedee will partner with other species to take care of nests while their owners are away. Indeedee are quite intelligent and know when they are being taken advantage of. Individuals can touch horns with one another to exchange information. This makes them highly efficient at warning others of unsavory employers and ungrateful customers. Thus, treating one Indeedee poorly can easily result in Indeedee across the city refusing to assist a person in all manners of tasks.

Biology: Egg Group - Fairy / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Forests / Urban
Proficiencies: Fairy / Psychic / Healer

580

Oricorio 

Psychic / Flying - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Dancer (Oricorio appearances and types change with the nectars they drink. At least four forms are known: Baile form is Fire-type, Pom-Pom form is Electric-type, Pa'u form is Psychic-type, Sensu form is Ghost-type.), Flight (can fly)

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Growl (+1 Defense), Keen Eye (Your accuracy checks cannot be negatively affected by foes.)
Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)
Air Cutter - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. Air Cutter has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Air Cutter is a critical hit.
Teeter Dance - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, all targets are Confused.
Revelation Dance - Ranged(10ft burst) Psychic Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. This attack's type is dependent on your primary type.

Sigilyph are ancient Pokťmon that are believed to have lived alongside humans thousands of years ago. Carvings found in different deserts depict these Pokťmon flying around the perimeters of ancient buildings and cities. A Sigilyph will always fly back and forth along the same route, as if constantly patrolling. They will attack objects blocking their patrol paths, attempting to blast holes into them for them to pass through. Sigilyph possess psychic powers that they use against those that approach them, perhaps as a reflexive attempt to defend their patrols.

Biology: Egg Group - Flying / Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Meadows
Proficiencies: Flying / Psychic (Pa'u) / Avian / Winged
Oricorio have adapted different forms depending on the kinds of nectar they drink; each one has its own typing and dance style, and Oricorio can swap between them by sipping nectar from different flowers. Pa'u Style Oricorio have sipped pink nectar and are Psychic-typed. Their calm and flowy dances are often thought as hypnotizing. These Oricorio take their dances very seriously, practicing for hours almost ritualistically.

581

Sigilyph 

Psychic / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Flight (can fly), Guster (can produce wind)

Passives: Tailwind (+2 Speed), Magic Guard (Foes can only deal damage to you with attacks that deal damage. You are unaffected by damage from afflictions, coats, hazards, weather or any passives given by foes.), Tinted Lens (Your resisted attacks deal +4 damage.), Wonder Skin (Your stats cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +6)
Whirlwind - Ranged(20ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, moves the target 60ft away.
Air Cutter - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. Air Cutter has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Air Cutter is a critical hit.
Psybeam - Ranged(15ft beam) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Biology: Egg Group - Flying / Amorphous, Egg Hatch Rate 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Ruins
Proficiencies: Flying / Psychic / Weird / Winged

Unown are very odd Pokťmon. They are often found stuck to the walls of ancient ruins, flying off and orbiting each other when touched or otherwise disturbed. Unown comes in at least twenty-eight different forms, each somewhat resembling a letter of the Latin alphabet as well as two resembling punctuation marks; it is unknown whether Unown or the written language came first. Ancient hieroglyphs found in ruins seem to indicate the former, as the carvings appeared to mimic the body shapes of the different forms of Unown. There are hundreds of other lesser common forms as well. Unown appear to act with a hive mind, though researchers are not yet sure how they communicate, though electromagnetic waves and telepathy seem to be the most likely candidates. A single Unown is rather weak alone, but when two or more are near each other, strange phenomena begin to occur. Reports of reality warping and other bizarre activities have been traced back to large swarms of Unown. These Pokťmon are believed to be connected with many elusive legendary Pokťmon, as well as the mysterious secrets of the universe itself.

582

Unown 

Psychic - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Flight (can fly), Invisibility (can turn invisible), Mind Lock (mind can't be read), Phasing (can move through solid objects), Telekinetic (can move things with their mind), Unown Melding (Up to six Unown bodies can constitute one single entity, capturable as a whole. When this happens, one of the group's base stats are randomly and permanently raised by +1 for every two Unown in the group. For every three Unown in the group, it gains an additional instance of the Hidden Power attack.), Unown Symbols (Unown have hundreds of unique forms that resemble letters, petroglyphs, hieroglyphs , and scripts from all around the world. While many may be identical in appearance, it's impossible to know how many unique forms there are.)

Passives: Levitate (You are immune to Ground-type moves while you are airborne.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Splash - Melee Normal Effect: At-Will. Instead of making an Accuracy Check, roll 1d20. On 18 or higher, all adjacent foes are moved 5 ft away from the user.
Teleport - Ranged(50ft) Psychic Effect: 1/day. Teleport may be used as a Reaction. Teleport moves you up to 50ft away in your line of sight. If an enemy would hit you with a move that deals damage, use Teleport as a Reaction to move up to 50ft away in your line of sight and take only 1/4th the damage you would have taken from the attack.
Hidden Power ≠ Ranged(25ft) (Variable) Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. When Hidden Power is added to a move list, assign a random Type to it (Type can't be changed by relearning this move).

Biology: Egg Group - Amorphous / Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 25 Days, Diet - Nullivore, Habitat - Ruins
Proficiencies: No moves from Any

583

Geodude / Graveler / Golem 

Geodude

Rock / Ground - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Hover (can hover)

Passives: Defense Curl (+1 Defense), Rock Polish (+2 Speed), Sturdy (If you would be brought from Max HP to 0 or below, you are instead brought to 1 HP.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +1, Effect +2)

Rollout - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Rollout against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Rollout's damage.

Rock Throw - Ranged(20ft) Rock Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Take Down - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.

Graveler

Rock / Ground - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 13 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Groundshaper (can manipulate the ground), Sinker (can't swim)

Passives: Defense Curl, Rock Polish, Rock Head (Your attacks that damage yourself on hit do not damage yourself.), Sturdy

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Smack Down - Ranged(25ft) Rock Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, Smack Down knocks the target out of the air, removing any Ground-type immunities and disabling the target's ability to move in the air for 2 mins.

Geodude are extremely common Pokťmon in rocky places, sometimes representing nearly half of the total Pokťmon in the area. They can almost perfectly disguise themselves as normal stones and hide in plain sight, spending most of their time like this. Geodude bury themselves halfway into the dirt to sleep; if stepped on, they may not even stir. However, awakening a sleeping Geodude may anger it and cause it to swing its fists at the assailer. They roll down mountainsides in search of food. Once satisfied, they hoist themselves back up with their arms in slow ascents. As Geodude age, their rough bodies begin to smoothen as their daily rolls chip away at their exteriors. The oldest Geodude may even have completely smooth bodies; such individuals tend to be calmer and less ornery than their younger relatives as well. They are prideful of the toughness of their bodies; two Geodude will slam against each other to see which has the harder exterior. Due to their electromagnetic makeup, they can levitate upwards and seemingly fly, an ability they will eventually lose.

Bulldoze - Ranged(20ft burst) Ground Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, all target's Speed are -1 for 10 mins.

Rock Blast - Ranged(10ft) Rock Attack: At-Will 1d4. Rock Blast has -2 during Accuracy Check. Rock Blast is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Evolution Shift compatible with Geodude (Iron-Rich) family (584)
584

Though Graveler are carefree and not at all aggressive Pokťmon, they are one of the main dangers trainers face while hiking in the mountains. The main hazard with Graveler is that they roll down mountainsides, smashing trees, boulders, and anything else standing in the way--including unwary travelers--until they reach the bottom. They are very difficult to stop once they pick up momentum from their tumbles, and can appear almost out of nowhere due to the high speeds they can reach. The best way to avoid rolling Graveler is to stay alert. If one hears rumbling in the distance on a mountain, one should try to locate its source and steer clear of the direct line below it. Graveler actively enjoy rolling down mountains and will climb to their peaks simply to tumble back down. Sometimes, these Pokťmon may lose chunks of their bodies due to the rough terrains they roll on, though they do slowly regenerate; the broken chunks may fly off as debris, so one must make sure to take cover as well. When not rolling down mountains, Graveler consume rocks, especially enjoying those covered in moss.

Golem
Rock / Ground - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight) Hit Points: 48 Defense: 14 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Groundshaper, Sinker

Passives: Defense Curl, Rock Polish, Rock Head, Sand Veil (While in Sandstorming Weather, any foe's attacks made against you have -1 during accuracy check and you don't take damage from Sandstorming weather.), Sturdy

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Heavy Slam - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. Heavy Slam can only target lighter targets.

Stealth Rock - Ranged(5ft) Rock Effect: 3/day. Place a

Stealth Rock Hazard adjacent to you. Stealth Rock Hazard

has the following ability: If a foe moves within 20 ft of

Stealth Rock Hazard, it will hurl itself at the foe, destroy-

ing itself and dealing 2d12 Rock-type damage to the foe

Golem are rarities in the wild, so it is rare to see one

without needing an Accuracy Check. This Hazard disap-

tumbling down a mountainside. They are very dangerous pears after 2 mins.

to be near, because they often propel themselves down

mountains while making small quakes. Such actions can set Earthquake - Ranged(30ft burst) Ground Attack: 1/day

off rockslides in the immediate vicinity. Golem shed their

3d12.

skins annually to grow larger; their shells almost immedi-

ately crumble away into the soil, enriching it. Their bodies

are whitish and tender for a short period of time, but new Biology: Egg Group - Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days,

shells will quickly harden upon contact with the air. Golem Diet - Terravore, Habitat - Caves / Mountains

eventually stop shedding with age, and particularly old indi- Evolution: Geodude viduals may even start growing moss on their carapaces

Graveler

Golem

after some time. Earthquakes will sometimes send groups Proficiencies: Ground / Rock / Magnetism

of Golem rolling down, endangering alpine homes. When

/ Stampeding (Graveler / Golem)

Golem roll, they tuck in their limbs and heads, rendering

them temporarily unable to see. A rolling Golem may cause

a small rockslide due to its weight, triggering others to roll

as well.

585

Geodude / Graveler / Golem (Iron-rich) 

Geodude (Iron-rich)

Rock / Electric - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Hover (can hover), Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Defense Curl (+1 Defense), Rock Polish (+2 Speed), Sturdy (If you would be brought from Max HP to 0 or below, you are instead brought to 1 HP.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +1, Effect +2)
Rollout - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Rollout against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Rollout's damage.
Rock Throw - Ranged(20ft) Rock Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Spark - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Graveler (Iron-rich)

Rock / Electric - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 13 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Sinker (can't swim), Zapper

Passives: Defense Curl, Rock Polish, Rock Head (Your attacks that damage yourself on hit do not damage yourself.), Sturdy

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Magnet Pull - Ranged(10ft) Electric Effect: 3/day. Magnet Pull can't miss. If used on a Steel type, the target is bound to you.
Thunder Punch - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Geodude in found in iron dominated mountainsides have bodies of magnetized stone; as Geodude incorporate minerals from their diets into their bodies, they naturally draw iron out of their rocky surroundings. Their magnetic minerals are not homogeneously distributed within their bodies, however, so this iron tends to clump in specific locations. Geodude spend much of their time disguised as ordinary stones. They can also wield their electromagnetic abilities to defend themselves, however. When Geodude are stepped on, they headbutt the offenders and then release electricity to shock those above them. This is usually accompanied with a distinct crunching sound that hikers in these regions have come to easily recognize. Since Geodude tend to congregate in areas rich in magnetic minerals, their presence in large numbers can help miners locate veins of specific ores. Geodude will headbutt one another to establish dominance; the individual with stronger magnetism will draw the iron out from its competitor.

Rock Blast - Ranged(10ft) Rock Attack: At-Will 1d4. Rock Blast has -2 during Accuracy Check. Rock Blast is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Evolution Shift compatible with Geodude family (582)
586

A quick-tempered Pokťmon, Graveler have gradually accumulated more magnetic minerals through their diets over time holding a charge that always wants to be released. These Pokťmon especially enjoy the gemstone dravite, a magnetically-attracted species of tourmaline. As Graveler consume dravite, the mineral begins to collect and crystallize within their bodies, eventually rising to the surface in crystals large enough to see with the naked eye. Graveler love dravite so much that they will fight with one another over it. When two of these creatures roll into one another, the collision releases a flash of light and a loud booming noise. Sparks can also sometimes be seen flying from the two combatants, shocking anything that draws too near.

Golem (Iron-rich)

Rock / Electric - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight) Hit Points: 48 Defense: 14 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Sinker, Zapper

Passives: Defense Curl, Rock Polish, Galvanize (Normaltype moves performed by you are treated as Electric-type moves.), Rock Head, Sturdy

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

The crystallized dravite and magnetized iron Golem attracted forms cannon-like structures above their heads upon evolution. Golem load rocks into this protrusion and electrizes them between their dravite crystals. Though they do not have very good aim, their projectiles can easily electrify foes if they even so much as graze them, causing numbness or even fainting; such projectiles will release a burst of electrical energy radiating from the point of impact. These Pokťmon must find rocks to reload between each shot, making their attacks rather slow. If their opponents draw too near while they are reloading, they may try to electrocute them directly with their cannons. These irritable Pokťmon can emit crackling electricity from the surface of their bodies when angered to growl with the sound of an approaching thunderstorm.

Heavy Slam - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. Heavy Slam can only target lighter targets.
Stealth Rock - Ranged(5ft) Rock Effect: 3/day. Place a Stealth Rock Hazard adjacent to you. Stealth Rock Hazard has the following ability: If a foe moves within 20 ft of Stealth Rock Hazard, it will hurl itself at the foe, destroying itself and dealing 2d12 Rock-type damage to the foe without needing an Accuracy Check. This Hazard disappears after 2 mins.
Discharge - Ranged(10ft burst) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Paralyzed.

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Terravore, Habitat - Caves / Mountains

Evolution: Geodude

Graveler

Golem

Proficiencies: Electric / Rock / Magnetism / Stampeding (Graveler Iron-Rich / Golem Iron-Rich)

587

Larvitar / Pupitar / Tyranitar 

Larvitar

Rock / Ground - Small (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Sinker (can't swim)

Passives: Screech (+2 Attack), Guts (While afflicted, your Attack is +2.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Chip Away - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. Chip Away has +2 on Accuracy Check if used against a target with a Defense or Special Defense raising passive.
Endure - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Endure is used as a Reaction. If you would be hit by an attack that would knock you out, use Endure to instead be left with 1 HP.

Pupitar

Rock / Ground - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Sinker

Passives: Screech, Guts, Shed Skin (After acting, you may roll 1d4. On 4, you are cured of any afflictions.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Bide - Ranged(25ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Bide is a three-turn move. On the first and second turns, do nothing. On the third turn, release energy; all characters within range take damage equal to twice the damage you took since the first turn of Bide.

Upon hatching, infant Larvitar find themselves buried under a pile of dirt and rock, then instinctively begin eating the soil around them, constantly consuming dirt without rest. They will eventually manage to burrow their way through the entire mound, a process that can take anywhere from weeks to months depending on how much dirt they were buried under. Once Larvitar reach the surface, they almost immediately begin preparing for evolution and continue to find dirt and rock to continue to consume. Using the large storages of energy gained from their giant meals, Larvitar will find crevices in mountainsides to hide. There, they will wait until they evolve.

Rock Slide - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Rock Attack: 1/day 5d12. Rock Slide has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Dark Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dark Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

588

Pupitar are limbless, but they are not immobile. When threatened, they will thrash about violently in hopes of bludgeoning or piercing foes with various parts of their bodies. Even if they fail to make contact, their sudden movements often topple unstable portions of their mountainous homes, trapping foes in rockslides. Such occurrences don't harm Pupitar; their shells are as hard as sheet rock. Additionally, the carapaces of these Pokťmon contain highly pressurized gas. By venting this gas out of their shells in a controlled manner, they can propel themselves at high speeds towards attackers. The force of these launches can dent steel without even scratching their shells. They can also use this gas to find new places to hide. However, Pupitar cannot replenish this gas once released, so they do not practice this method of defense and locomotion often. Inside their shells, new arms and legs are beginning to develop as these Pokťmon prepare for evolution. Pupitar do not eat, relying on the energy they had stored as Larvitar for survival. Even when not in danger, these Pokťmon will thrash about in order to relieve themselves of stored gases, leading to the common belief that they are temperamental and impatient for evolution.

Tyranitar

Rock / Dark - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight) Hit Points: 60 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 15

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Groundshaper (can manipulate the ground), Sinker

Passives: Screech, Guts, Sand Stream (As a free action you may deplete one use of Sandstorm and use Sandstorm.), Unnerve (Foes within 25ft of you cannot consume food.)

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)

Sandstorm - Rock Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Sandstorming Weather with a 60ft diameter. Anyone who acts within the Sandstorming weather takes 2d4 damage after acting unless they are Rock-type, Ground-type, or Steel-type. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Tyranitar can be very devastating, as they are aggressive and care little for other life around them. Their armor is tough, making it difficult to stop these Pokťmon when they are enraged; this makes Tyranitar eager to fight others, as they are unlikely to get hurt. Extended battle between multiple Tyranitar can level entire lots of land, forcing cartographers to redraw maps after their rampages. Even when not angered, Tyranitar can still be destructive; they are known to cause earthquakes as they topple mountains while searching for nest-building locations. Though powerful, wild Tyranitar are also rare. Furthermore, they generally live in remote areas away from most people, and do not intentionally approach foes that they do not see as comparable competitors.

Earthquake - Ranged(30ft burst) Ground Attack: 1/day 3d12.

Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 20 Days, Diet - Omnivore / Terravore, Habitat - Badlands / Mountains

Evolution: Larvitar

Pupitar

Tyranitar

Proficiencies: Dark (Tyranitar) / Dragon (Tyranitar) / Ground / Rock / Draconian / Stampeding (Tyranitar)

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 589

Nacli / Naclstack / Garganacl 

Nacli

Rock - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Sinker (can't swim)

Passives: Harden (+1 Defense), Sturdy (If you would be brought from Max HP to 0 or below, you are instead brought to 1 HP.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +1) Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Rock Throw - Ranged(20ft) Rock Attack: At-Will 2d6. Mud Shot - Ranged(10ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Naclstack

Rock - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Sinker

Passives: Harden, Rock Polish (+2 Speed), Purifying Salt (You are immune to status afflictions. You are resistant to Ghost-type attacks.), Sturdy

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Block - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d6 rounds.
Rock Tomb - Ranged(15ft) Rock Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Recover - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP.

Nacli are born beneath the earth's crust within layers of rock salt. When they make their ways to the surface, they begin scraping their ways across cave floors, leaving behind trails of salt. While this wears down on their bodies, Nacli can synthesize sodium and chloride ions into new salt to replenish what they lose. Because of this property, they were, and still are, highly prized by humans due to the importance of salt for cooking and food preservation. Since they naturally leave salt behind as they travel, the harvest is harmless to the Nacli themselves. Nacli spray salt on enemies to wick away their moisture and irritate vulnerable areas. These Pokťmon are hunters that encase small prey whole to cure them. While their success rate is not very high, it does not have to be because their catches are preserved and can last them for months at a time. Nacli stay away from water, which can quickly dissolve their salt; they can frequently be found on beaches, however, feasting on the trace minerals found in evaporated sea salt.

590

The natural cubic structure of salt crystals becomes very apparent on Naclstack, who appear to be composed entirely of cubes. Naclstack compress rock salt within their bodies into hard pellets that they can shoot with enough force to perforate sheet metal. Though sluggish, these Pokťmon take their time to line up their shots at unwary prey before shooting. Ideally, their targets are knocked unconscious, allowing Naclstack to amble up to their victims and encase them in salt to dry cure. Though they can synthesize salt naturally, they require food in order to fortify the salt with other trace minerals. Accordingly, Naclstack salt tastes considerably more complex than that of Nacli; it can be an acquired taste due to this, and is more commonly used as a finishing salt rather than for general seasoning. Naclstack that remain stationary for long periods of time continue to build up salt, sometimes even becoming covered in large, undisturbed crystals that break off in huge chunks when they begin moving again.

Garganacl

Rock - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 14 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Sinker

Passives: Harden, Rock Polish, Clear Body (Your stats cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.), Purifying Salt, Sturdy

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)

Heavy Slam - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. Heavy Slam can only target lighter targets.

Stone Edge - Ranged(25ft) Rock Attack: 1/day 5d12. Stone

Edge has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18

Garganacl are benevolent Pokťmon that produce more or higher on Accuracy Check, Stone Edge is a critical hit.

salt than they know what to do with. Thanks to their varied Salt Cure - Ranged(10ft) Rock Effect: 1/day. On hit, the tar-

diets, their salt is fortified with all sorts of minerals and

get gets a Salt Coat. The Coat has the following ability: At

compounds that grant it incredible properties. When Gar- the beginning of your turn, you lose 1d6 HP. If you are

ganacl come across injured people and Pokťmon, they will Steel-type or Water-type, you lose 2d6 HP instead. This

sprinkle some of their salt into their wounds. Though the Coat lasts for 3 mins, or until you are at 0 or less HP.

action stings quite a bit, the wounds quickly heal due to the

regenerative and antibacterial properties the salt possess-

es. In spiritual circles, Garganacl salt is lauded for its purifying properties and is believed to ward off ghosts when tossed over the shoulder. In the wild, Garganacl are commonly seen surrounded by Pokťmon like Lechonk who lick

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet - Carnivore, Terravore, Habitat - Caves / Deserts / Mountains

them for their valuable salt. This doesn't seem to bother Evolution: Nacli

Naclstack

Garganacl

them much until they need to move, at which point they will gently shoo the smaller Pokťmon away. Because of its mystical abilities, Garganacl salt is commonly seen in health

Proficiencies: Ground (Naclstack / Garganacl) / Rock / Punches (Garganacl) / Stampeding (Garganacl)

shops; however, much of the salt sold is counterfeit or

laced with table salt, as the two are identical in appearance.

591

Roggenrola / Boldore / Gigalith 

Roggenrola

Rock - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Burrow (moves through earth easily), Sinker (can't swim)

Passives: Harden (+1 Defense), Sturdy (If you would be brought from Max HP to 0 or below, you are instead brought to 1 HP.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +1, Effect +1)

Headbutt - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Mud-Slap - Ranged(5ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 1d6. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.

Rock Blast - Ranged(10ft) Rock Attack: At-Will 1d4. Rock Blast has -2 during Accuracy Check. Rock Blast is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Boldore

Rock - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 13 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Burrow, Sinker

Passives: Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Sturdy, Weak Armor (When you are hit by a melee attack, your Defense is -3 and your Speed is +3 for 10 mins.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)

Roggenrola require immense pressure in order to develop properly, so their eggs are almost exclusively found deep within the earth. The crushing pressure of the underground allows them to develop dense bodies as hard as steel, with mysterious energy cores that provide them with energy. Occasionally, older Roggenrola may make their way to deep caves closer to the surface, perhaps out of curiosity. They must return back into the earth, though, as their cores require pressure to run. The holes on their bodies are not eyes, but ears. They allow Roggenrola to hear sounds that reverberate in the rocks around them, alerting them to potential dangers like running water, which can cool their cores and erode their bodies; a long soak can even leave them soft and vulnerable for weeks. They follow sounds intently, toppling over from surprise if they stop abruptly. These ears also connect to and vent their energy cores, and these Pokťmon will get quite angry if these orifices are messed with.

Smack Down - Ranged(25ft) Rock Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, Smack Down knocks the target out of the air, removing any Ground-type immunities and disabling the target's ability to move in the air for 2 mins.

Power Gem - Ranged(20ft) Rock Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Rock Slide - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Rock Attack: 1/day 5d12. Rock Slide has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

592

Boldore still spend most of their time deep below, but they can now spend extended periods of time in caves near the surface thanks to improved core stability. The orange crystals jutting from their bodies are hardened growths of their cores, which sometimes leak from cracks in their forms when they store too much energy. These outgrowths are signs of healthy Boldore, as they signal a surplus of energy. These orange growths are also harder than diamond. Boldore cannot turn, so they scuttle back and forth or left and right. They use their ears to detect echoes and vibrations around them. Boldore use their ears to find rather than avoid water; since their radioactive cores are now much stronger, they are also more prone to overheating. For this reason, Boldore must occasionally drink water to cool themselves down to prevent potential meltdowns, though they still dislike getting their exteriors wet. These Pokťmon are easily spooked and will charge straight forwards towards unfamiliar sounds. When Boldore crystals begin to glow, it is preparing to launch an energy attack.

Gigalith

Rock - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight) Hit Points: 54 Defense: 15 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 14

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Burrow, Sinker

Passives: Iron Defense, Sand Force (While in Sandstorming Weather, your Rock-type and Ground-type attacks deal +4 damage and you don't take damage from Sandstorming weather.), Sand Stream (As a free action you may deplete one use of Sandstorm and use Sandstorm.), Sturdy, Weak Armor

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +3, Effect +1)

Though they spend most of their time deep underground, Gigalith will make their way to the surface to bask in the sun's rays. The crystals on their bodies can convert sunlight into energy in their radioactive cores, allowing them to effectively survive off of nothing but the sun. Gigalith can also fire stored light from their mouths in balls of energy. Despite their destructive potential, Gigalith are peaceful Pokťmon, as their nigh-indestructible bodies keep them safe without the need to retaliate. When some Gigalith fire off particularly powerful attacks, they crack their bodies with thousands of tiny fissures from the recoil, and must hide themselves away until they recover.

Stealth Rock - Ranged(5ft) Rock Effect: 3/day. Place a Stealth Rock Hazard adjacent to you. Stealth Rock Hazard has the following ability: If a foe moves within 20 ft of Stealth Rock Hazard, it will hurl itself at the foe, destroying itself and dealing 2d12 Rock-type damage to the foe without needing an Accuracy Check. This Hazard disappears after 2 mins.
Stone Edge - Ranged(25ft) Rock Attack: 1/day 5d12. Stone Edge has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Stone Edge is a critical hit.
Self-Destruct - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Attack: 1/day 7d20. Set your HP to 0, then roll 1d20. On 10 or less, your HP is set to -100% HP and you must make a death saving throw.

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Phototroph / Terravore, Habitat - Caves / Mountains

Evolution: Roggenrola

Boldore Gigalith

Proficiencies: Ground / Rock / Stampeding (Gigalith)

593

Rolycoly / Carkol / Coalossal 

Rolycoly

Rock - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 18 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Sinker (can't swim)

Passives: Rock Polish (+2 Speed), Steam Engine (When a foe hits you with a Fire-type or Water-type attack, your Speed is +2 for 10 mins.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)

Rapid Spin - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d8. Destroy any Hazards or Coats, and free bound allies within 5 ft. You may target Hazards, Coats, or bound allies with Rapid Spin without needing to roll Accuracy Check or damage.

Smack Down - Ranged(25ft) Rock Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, Smack Down knocks the target out of the air, removing any Ground-type immunities and disabling the target's ability to move in the air for 2 mins.

Smoke Screen - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. Place up to 25 contiguous ft of Smoke Screen Wall. Smoke Screen Wall has no thickness, is 12 ft tall and has the following ability: Attacks that target through or within the wall have -2 during Accuracy Check. This Wall disappears after 2 mins.
Carkol
Rock / Fire - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight) Hit Points: 48 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 7

Rolycoly dwell within mountains rich in coal. Their bodies are composed almost entirely of the black mineral, which also makes up their entire diets. Rolycoly burn coal to power their wheel-like feet. Their rough shape enables them to zoom across rocky terrain with ease. The heat they produce by doing so makes their eyes glow a reddishorange, lighting up dark areas. They shed coal from their bodies as they zip from place to place. Though Rolycoly are afraid of water, they will undergo a quick burst of speed when crossing through a puddle of it as their internal engines convert it to steam.

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Firestarter (can create fire), Sinker

Passives: Rock Polish, Flame Body (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Burn the attacker.), Steam Engine

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Flame Charge - Melee Fire Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins.

Ancient Power - Ranged(10ft) Rock Special Attack: 1/day 2d8. On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour.

Stealth Rock - Ranged(5ft) Rock Effect: 3/day. Place a Stealth Rock Hazard adjacent to you. Stealth Rock Hazard has the following ability: If a foe moves within 20 ft of Stealth Rock Hazard, it will hurl itself at the foe, destroying itself and dealing 2d12 Rock-type damage to the foe without needing an Accuracy Check. This Hazard disappears after 2 mins.

594

Carkol love coal, but do not rely solely upon it for survival. Instead, they can consume other minerals as well as organic matter, primarily plant material, in order to synthesize their own coal. They store their production on their backs as a fuel reserve, much as mammals store excess calories as fat. When Carkol produce too much coal, bits of it will simply begin falling off of their reserve piles. Some gather this discarded coal to use as fuel. Carkol can combust their coal to produce flames. They can also power their rolling legs in this way to pick up speed.

Coalossal

Rock / Fire - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 66 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Firestarter, Sinker

Passives: Rock Polish, Flame Body, Flash Fire (You are im-

mune to Fire-type attacks. If you would be hit by a Fire-type

attack, your Fire type attacks deal +4 damage for 2 mins.),

Despite their stature, Coalossal are gentle giants. They Steam Engine

are exclusively herbivores and terravores, consuming plant matter and minerals and compressing it within their bod-

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +2)

ies. They serve as protectors of coal-rich mines and cav-

Rock Blast - Ranged(10ft) Rock Attack: At-Will 1d4. Rock

erns, as well as of the Rolycoly and Carkol that dwell within. Blast has -2 during Accuracy Check. Rock Blast is a Scatter

They will become enraged at those who threaten these coal attack. Up to 5 attacks.

deposits, defending them with flames. When Coalossal are fighting, their mountains of coal will glow bright red and radiate an immense heat. Sparks flying from their piles can ignite fires in more flammable areas. The anthracite that Coalossal produce is valued for its high quality and ease of

Tar Shot - Ranged(20ft) Rock Effect: 3/day. Put a Tar Coat on the target. The Coat has the following ability: Your Speed is -2. If you are hit by a Fire-type attack, you take +8 damage. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

harvest. However, because Coalossal must eat more in or- Heat Crash - Melee Fire Attack: 3/day 3d10. Heat Crash

der to produce this high-grade mineral, it is generally not can only target lighter targets.

as cost-efficient as harvesting the coal that Carkol produc-

es. Coalossal anthracite still has its uses in applications

where high quality is necessary, though.

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days,

Diet - Terravore, Habitat - Caves / Mountains / Volcanoes

Evolution: Rolycoly

Carkol

Coalossal

Proficiencies: Fire / Rock / Stampeding (Coalossal)

This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2. 595

Amaura / Aurorus 

Amaura

Rock / Ice - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Freezer (can create ice), Glow (can produce light)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Refrigerate (Normal-type moves performed by you are treated as Ice-type moves.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Powder Snow - Ranged(5ft burst) Ice Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.
Thunder Wave - Ranged(20ft) Electric Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Paralyzed.
Rock Throw - Ranged(20ft) Rock Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Aurorus

Rock / Ice - Huge (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 72 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Freezer, Glow

Passives: Growl, Refrigerate, Snow Warning (As a free action you may deplete one use of Hail and use Hail.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)
Freeze-Dry - Ranged(10ft) Ice Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. Freeze-Dry is also Super effective against Water types. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.

Alive approximately one-hundred million years ago, Amaura can now be revived from ancient fossils, though they have also been successfully resurrected from frozen tissue preserved in glaciers. Amaura were unique amongst most prehistoric Pokťmon in that they lived in freezing, icy tundra rather than warm jungles or seas. In these areas, they did not face predation from carnivores. The crystals on either side of their bodies emanate freezing cold air that allow them to freeze water in the atmosphere to use Ice-type attacks. They can create effects similar to that of magnetic auroras by suspending tiny ice crystals in the air. Though Amaura were able to survive the ice age that wiped out most of their contemporaries, they likely went extinct in the following warming period; as the modern world is much warmer than that of the ice age.

Ancient Power - Ranged(10ft) Rock Special Attack: 1/day 2d8. On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour.
Hail - Ice Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Hailing Weather with a 60ft diameter. Anyone who acts within the Hailing weather takes 2d4 damage after acting unless they are Ice Type. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Glaciers / Tundra

Evolution: Amaura

Aurorus

Proficiencies: Ice / Rock / Elemental Attack E

596

Aurorus are large Pokťmon that once inhabited frozen

Anorith can be revived from fossils found in limestone

tundra. Because of their harsh environments, they did not rocks. It is believed to have existed one-hundred million

have to fear most predators, who could not survive the

years ago, in a habitat of warm ocean reefs. Their wings

cold; Aurorus have antifreeze proteins in their blood that appear to be feet modified for swimming; most other

enable them to endure freezing temperatures. The crystals ancient Pokťmon adapted aquatic appendages for land,

on these Pokťmon chill the surrounding air allowing them rather than vice versa. Anorith travel using these wings to

to instantly freezing moisture in the air. When threatened, keep aloft in water, undulating their bodies in an S-shape to

Aurorus use this ability to try to encase their foes in ice.

swim surprisingly quickly. To hunt, they hide themselves

These Pokťmon can also create aurora-like lights by

between rocks on the sea floor, darting out to capture

diffracting light through tiny ice crystals in the air. Because passing prey between their claws. Their mouths are located

Aurorus relied primarily on the bitter cold to keep

on their undersides. Scientists still debate why Anorith

predators away from them, they likely went extinct during went extinct, considering that it is was more than capable

an ancient warming period in which much of the world's ice of following migrating prey. The most likely explanation is

melted. Such an event allowed many predators, who saw that over time, Anorith simply became outclassed by more

the large, yet slow and relatively defensive Aurorus as easy specialized hunters, dying out from their inability to

prey, to venture further north into once-icy regions.

compete with other predators.

597

Anorith / Armaldo 

Anorith

Rock / Bug - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Fountain (can create water), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Harden (+1 Defense), Battle Armor (Critical hits are treated as normal hits against you.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)

Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Fury Cutter - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Fury Cutter against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Fury Cutter's damage.
Metal Claw - Melee Steel Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.

Armaldo

Rock / Bug - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Fountain, Gilled, Swimmer

Passives: Harden, Battle Armor, Swift Swim (While in Raining weather or in water, your Speed is +2.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.
X-Scissor - Melee Bug Attack: 3/day 3d10.
Rock Blast - Ranged(10ft) Rock Attack: At-Will 1d4. Rock Blast has -2 during Accuracy Check. Rock Blast is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Armaldo adapted to survive both on water and on land; though they spend most of their time walking on two legs terrestrially, they dove into the water to hunt for aquatic prey, swimming using the two carapace wings on their backs. The smaller, feather-like wings were used for finetuning their direction while in the water. Armaldo stab prey with their claws, which are strong enough to punch through stone. These claws are retractable, allowing them to streamline their shape while swimming. Their bodies are clad in tough, armor-like plates of chitin that protect them from most attacks. It is not entirely clear why Armaldo went extinct, given their ability to hunt and move around amphibiously. It is likely that their slow speed was the main culprit; though they were versatile in their habitat ranges, their prey likely evolved to become faster with time; other, quicker predators were able to keep up, but the slow Armaldo were not able to match them.
Biology: Egg Group - Water 3 / Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Ocean Floors / Ocean Reefs
Evolution: Anorith Armaldo
Proficiencies: Bug / Rock / Water / Slashing / Stampeding (Armaldo)

598

Archen / Archeops 

Archen

Rock / Flying - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Flight (can fly)
Passives: Scary Face (+2 Speed), Defeatist (When your HP is below half of your max hit points, your stats are all -2.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.
Wing Attack - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d8.
Rock Throw - Ranged(20ft) Rock Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Archeops

Archen are once-extinct Pokťmon that can be revived from fossils. The discovery of these fossils sparked an uproar in the scientific community because they presented the first known evidence of ancient feathered Pokťmon that, unlike other known avian Pokťmon, also had scales and developed tails. Many scientists even thought that their fossils were merely hoaxes, perhaps the fossilized footprints of Pokťmon mistaken for feathers. With DNA testing and the subsequent revival of Archen themselves, however, their existence was finally, undoubtedly, proven. Today, Archen are widely believed to be the ancestors of all modern bird Pokťmon. They dwell in the treetops of warm jungles; despite their wing-like arms, however, Archen are unable to fly for sustained periods of time. Instead, they hop from branch to branch to get around. They are known to be very cowardly; though aggressive at first, they will quickly retreat when threatened. Archen are thought to have gone extinct as more adept fliers evolved and outcompeted them for resources.

Rock / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7 Speed: 13 (65 ft.) Attack: 14 Special Attack: 11 Skills: Flight Passives: Scary Face, Defeatist
Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +5, Effect +6) Acrobatics - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Acrobatics cannot be used if you have a held item. Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins. Dragon Claw - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Biology: Egg Group - Flying / Water 3, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Jungles
Evolution: Archen Archeops
Proficiencies: Flying / Rock / Avian / Draconian (Archeops) / Winged

599

Binacle can be found on rocky beaches and in tide pools.

Archeops are relatively poor flyers. They can stay aloft They have two independent heads on each end of their

for short periods of time leaping as high as they can, but body. Though they appear sessile, Binacle can in fact move,

they are unable to travel more than a few hundred meters albeit laboriously, by contracting and then extending their

in this fashion. Archeops are far faster on land than in the bodies to leap forwards. This motion requires two

air. Unfortunately, they are still very clumsy terrestrially, as individuals to work together in unison, which is likely why

their numerous feathers and heavy, wing-like arms make it Binacle bodies have two distinct heads. Still, cooperation is

difficult for them to stay balanced. Archeops compensate imperative for both attacking and defending, and bickering

for their lack of agility with their ability to cooperate in

Binacle are unlikely to survive for long. These creatures

flocks. Groups of Archeops will work together to surround attach themselves to rocks by excreting a special cement

and take down prey or gather fruit; they are able to

that glues them to stones; even the strongest forces cannot

innovate unique strategies in order to do so. Because of pull them off once attached. When threatened, Binacle

their clumsiness, though, any prey that do manage to

contract themselves and hide the vulnerable portions of

outsmart them are almost guaranteed to escape. This likely their bodies, exposing only their bare heads and sharp

was downfall of these Pokťmon; though smart and

claws. These Pokťmon feed on seaweed and algae that

cooperative, their ungainly movements made it difficult for washes onto the shore, making the most of each high tide.

them compete as faster, more agile predators evolved.

600

Binacle / Barbaracle 

Binacle

Rock / Water - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Fountain (can create water), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)
Passives: Withdraw (+1 Defense), Tough Claws (Your slashing attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Fury Swipes - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Fury Swipes has -2 during Accuracy Check. Fury Swipes is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Mud-Slap - Ranged(5ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 1d6. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.

Binacle gain an additional five heads upon evolution into Barbaracle. All the heads of a Barbaracle are connected by a single nervous system, but each individual head has its own independently-functioning brain. This enables each limb to think for itself, which is valuable in critical emergencies; however, in order to work most efficiently, the other six limbs will normally follow the orders of the head, which functions as the leader of the seven. While the individuals serving as the arms and legs of a Barbaracle have rather obvious purposes, the two units on the shoulders possess fewer clear jobs. They are known as the scout individuals, who use their eyes to help Barbaracle scan the entire area around them; though all eyes of a Barbaracle are fully functional, the scouts are entirely dedicated to keeping watch. These two scout limbs, along with the other appendages as well as the heads, can be used to brutally assail opponents with barrages of sharp claws and the equivalent strength of seven individuals.

Barbaracle

Rock / Water - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight) Hit Points: 42 Defense: 13 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Fountain, Gilled, Swimmer

Passives: Hone Claws (+2 Attack), Rock Polish (+2 Speed), Withdraw, Pickpocket (When you are hit by a melee attack, you steal the offender's held item, if any.), Sniper (When you land a critical hit, you deal an additional 8 damage.), Tough Claws

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)

Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 3 / Water 1, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Beaches
Evolution: Binacle Barbaracle
Proficiencies: Rock / Water / Elemental Attack I / Slashing

Razor Shell - Melee Water Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Stone Edge - Ranged(25ft) Rock Attack: 1/day 5d12. Stone Edge has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Stone Edge is a critical hit.

601

Bonsly / Sudowoodo 

Bonsly

Rock - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 1 (5 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 1

Skills: Sinker (can't swim)

Passives: Tearful Look (+1 Defense, +1 Special Defense), Sturdy (If you would be brought from Max HP to 0 or below, you are instead brought to 1 HP.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +0, Effect +0)
Flail - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 1d10. If you are at less than half of your Max HP, Flail has 1d20 for damage instead. If you are at less than 5 HP, Flail has 5d12 for damage instead.
Low Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d10. Low Kick can only target heavier targets.
Rock Throw - Ranged(20ft) Rock Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Sudowoodo

Rock - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 13 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Sinker
Passives: Tearful Look, Rattled (When a foe hits you with a Bug-type, Ghost-type, or Dark-type attack, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins. This can stack.), Rock Head (Your attacks that damage yourself on hit do not damage yourself.), Sturdy

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +1, Effect +1)

Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Slam has -2 during Accuracy Check.
Hammer Arm - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Head Smash - Melee Rock Attack: 1/day 7d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to half of the damage you deal. Head Smash has -2 during Accuracy Check.

Bonsly thrive in arid environments, as their bodies cannot tolerate much moisture. However, they stand out starkly against dull backgrounds, so they tend to camouflage with trees in wooded areas, albeit away from streams,. They sometimes wander into parks for similar reasons; one may occasionally see Bonsly fleeing from gardens when sprinkler systems turn on. Bonsly are often found crying; they are not upset, but rather regulating their moisture levels by excreting excess fluids out of their eyes. The more humid their surroundings, the more they will weep. In battle, this skill also goads enemies into letting their guards down. Bonsly are relatively skilled at mimicking trees, capable of remaining still for long periods of time. They dig small holes in the ground and bury themselves halfway, posing as small saplings. When threatened, Bonsly will try to flee, but may throw themselves at foes as a last resort. Due to their weight, this can be a very painful maneuver. The dull luster of their green orbs increases as they dry out, acting as a sign of their moisture level.

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral / Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Terravore, Habitat - Forests

Evolution: Bonsly

Sudowoodo

Proficiencies: Grass (Melee Attacks) / Rock / Punches / Stampeding (Sudowoodo)

602

Sudowoodo are often mistaken for trees or Grass-

types--this is their greatest defense. Sudowoodo mimic

trees to camouflage in forests. Their disguises can fool Grass-, Ground-, and Water-types into overlooking them. Additionally, they are also resistant to Flying-, Fire-, and Poison-types, which true Grass-types are weak to. They can

Cranidos can be revived from fossils, found primarily in sandstone. They dwelled in ancient tropical jungles about one-hundred million years ago. Their skulls are as hard as

be found blending in with trees in forests and parks.

steel; as they travel through forests, they simply headbutt

Despite their mimicry, however, a few key tell-tale signs can trees in their way rather than going around them; fossilized

help trainers distinguish ordinary trees from hidden

trunks are plentiful in rock layers where their fossils are

Sudowoodo. On windless days, trees whose branches

found. Cranidos also tackle prey headfirst to take them

shudder erratically are often Sudowoodo. After a fresh fall down. They are omnivorous--when not hunting, they can

of winter snow, trees that are oddly bare while their

often be found eating ferns and other low-growing plants.

surroundings are blanketed in white are also likely

They also forage the Berries knocked out of the trees and

Sudowoodo. Finally, Sudowoodo are very hydrophobic-- shrubs they destroy while charging. Cranidos live in herds

they are deathly afraid of water. They will charge out of

of fifteen to twenty members, consisting both of Cranidos

hiding if exposed to the substance. If they even sense rain, and their evolutions Rampardos. While not the smartest

they will immediately seek shelter elsewhere. Their arms Pokťmon these herds find strength in numbers, using their

are quite strong, yet flexible, allowing them to hold them heads to fend off attackers from all directions. While able

up for incredibly long periods of time.

to attain high speeds, Cranidos require lots of room in

order to accelerate properly. In cramped areas, they

become vulnerable due to their inability to headbutt at full

speed. Cranidos likely went extinct due to an extended

glacial period that killed off most of the plants that made

up over half of their diets.

603

Cranidos / Rampardos 

Cranidos

Rock - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 14

Special Attack: 3

Skills: -

Passives: Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Leer (+1 Attack), Scary Face (+2 Speed), Mold Breaker (Your attacks ignore any passives that would redirect, negate or weaken your attacks.)

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +1, Effect +4)

Headbutt - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Pursuit - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d6. Pursuit deals +6 damage to a target if they ended their turn further away from you during the start of their turn.
Take Down - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.

Rampardos

Rock - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight) Hit Points: 60 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 18

Special Attack: 7

Skills: -

Passives: Focus Energy, Leer, Scary Face, Mold Breaker, Sheer Force (Your attacks that have additional effects that affect the target may deal +4 damage, but will not have those additional effects.)

Moves (Attack +9, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)
Assurance - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target was already attacked this round, Assurance deals +1d8 damage.

Rampardos have skulls harder than industrial iron. They can pulverize even the sturdiest objects in single tackles. Their skulls are nearly a foot thick, enabling them to withstand nearly any cranial blow. Consequently, however, this leaves little room for brain growth; as a result, these Pokťmon are not very intelligent. They will charge at anything they perceive to be threats. This occasionally even includes inanimate objects like boulders and trees; one modern incident involves a just-revived Rampardos pulverizing a truck. Rampardos charge recklessly through forests when pursuing prey, leaving trails of fallen trees behind. Rampardos will ram heads together to compete for dominance until one gives up; their thick skulls ensures that this process is a very arduous and time-consuming ritual. Archaeological evidence shows that some ancient cultures in fact unearthed Rampardos skulls and used them as helmets in combat. Though popular culture often portrays Rampardos as having gone extinct due to their low intellect, most scientists agree that they died out during an ice age that killed off much of the currently existing life at the time; a cooling climate destroyed most of the tropical plants that they relied upon for survival.

Zen Headbutt - Melee Psychic Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Head Smash - Melee Rock Attack: 1/day 7d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to half of the damage you deal. Head Smash has -2 during Accuracy Check.

Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Jungles

Evolution: Cranidos

Rampardos

Proficiencies: Dark / Rock / Elemental Attack

604

Glimmet / Glimmora 

Glimmet

Rock / Poison - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Hover (can hover)
Passives: Harden (+1 Defense), Toxic Debris (When you are hit by an attack that dealt damage, as a free action you may deplete one use of Toxic Spikes and use Toxic Spikes immediately.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)

Acid Spray - Ranged(20ft) Poison Special Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Rock Throw - Ranged(20ft) Rock Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Glimmet are elusive Pokťmon that primarily dwell deep within caverns. They bury their heads into cave walls to drain minerals and nutrients, leaving their closed petals exposed like flower buds. Once they exhaust a wall of its resources, they will detach and float off in search of a new surface. Glimmet synthesize the minerals they absorb into toxic compounds. In fact, their petals actually crystallized toxic minerals, and store a powdered form of the mineral within themselves like pollen. When Glimmet are disturbed, their iridescent flowers open to release clouds of the toxic dust. Because Glimmet often cluster together on walls rich in resources, they often resemble enchanting fields of crystal flowers. However, if these fields are disturbed, they will all open at once, filling unventilated cavern halls with huge amounts of toxic dust. In some regions, it is said that Glimmet poisoning is the most common reason why spelunkers never return from expeditions.

Toxic Spikes - Ranged(20ft burst) Poison Effect: 3/day. Place the Toxic Spikes Hazard in the area surrounding you. Toxic Spikes Hazard has the following ability: When a foe moves through Toxic Spikes Hazard during their turn and are on the ground, they are Poisoned. If the Toxic Spikes Hazard has multiple layers, it will Toxify foes instead of Poisoning them instead. This Hazard disappears after 2 mins.

Glimmora

Rock / Poison - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 13

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Acid Armor (+2 Defense), Rock Polish (+2 Speed), Corrosion (You can Poison and Toxify Steel-types and Poison -types.), Toxic Debris

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +6, Effect +5)

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 13 Days, Diet - Pollutivore / Terravore, Habitat - Deep Caves

Evolution: Glimmet

Glimmora

Proficiencies: Poison / Rock / Parasitic

Stealth Rock - Ranged(5ft) Rock Effect: 3/day. Place a Stealth Rock Hazard adjacent to you. Stealth Rock Hazard has the following ability: If a foe moves within 20 ft of Stealth Rock Hazard, it will hurl itself at the foe, destroying itself and dealing 2d12 Rock-type damage to the foe without needing an Accuracy Check. This Hazard disappears after 2 mins.
Venoshock - Ranged(10ft) Poison Special Attack: 3/day 2d10. If the target is Poisoned or Toxified, Venoshock has 4d10 for damage instead.
Power Gem - Ranged(20ft) Rock Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.

605

Scientists have successfully been able to revive Kabuto

Glimmora flowers are elaborate and mesmerizing.

from fossils, which are often found in once-submerged oce-

Glimmora dig headfirst into cave walls to siphon minerals anic caves. These Pokťmon went extinct three-hundred

that they synthesize into toxic compounds. While buried in million years ago. Kabuto have four eyes, two on their

the wall, their bodies look like a large blossom. The differ- backs and two under their shells. Both pairs are function-

ently-colored petals they possess have different composi- ing; they use their red eyes while searching for food on the

tions of crystallized toxic minerals, and their dust is also

sea floor and their smaller black eyes while hiding from

more potent due to this mix of compounds as well. By spin- predators in the sand, leaving these secondary pairs above-

ning their bodies rapidly, they can propel their toxins fur- ground. When flipped over, Kabuto have great difficulty

ther away. In addition to scattering dust, Glimmora can also righting themselves, so they become easy targets for op-

charge and fire beams of concentrated light by focusing it portunistic predators that can attack their soft, exposed

through their petals. Curiously, these petal-like crystals

undersides. Kabuto feed by biting and draining fluids from

closely resemble the Tera Jewels associated with the

their prey, a process that can be fatal for smaller victims.

Terastal phenomenon, and both Glimmet and Glimmora They tend to attack the heads of larger, slow-moving aquat-

can often be found in large numbers near Tera Crystals. ic Pokťmon, using their claws to dig into flesh and attach-

Exactly how the Pokťmon are related to this phenomenon ing themselves with ease. Kabuto have primitive lungs,

is still unknown, but it is currently an intense topic of study which allow them to climb onto beaches for up to thirty

amongst researchers.

minutes at a time. They must then return to the water af-

terwards, or risk drying out and being asphyxiated.

606

Kabuto / Kabutops 

Kabuto

Rock / Water - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 18 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Fountain (can create water), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)
Passives: Harden (+1 Defense), Leer (+1 Attack), Battle Armor (Critical hits are treated as normal hits against you.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)
Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Mud Shot - Ranged(10ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Aqua Jet - Melee Water Attack: At-Will 2d6. Aqua Jet has Priority.

Kabutops can tuck in their limbs and slither at high speeds through the water. They slash prey with their sharp, sickle-like arms and drain their body fluids. Kabutops can also leave the water and walk on land for extended periods of time, up to twelve hours in humid environments. This allowed them to thrive as apex predators for a long time, as they could hunt both aquatic and terrestrial prey. However, their lungs are still not developed enough to allow them to stray far away from the water. While it is not known for certain what could have caused their extinction, a popular theory states that some kind of event led to drastically fluctuating temperatures worldwide. Ice caps melted and refroze over and over again, causing sea levels to bounce back and forth. Kabuto and Kabutops were unable to survive completely on land when their shoreline habitats dried up. Additionally, many of the species they preyed on died out during this time, so most of the surviving individuals were likely starved to extinction.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Water 3, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Ocean Floors / Ocean Reefs

Evolution: Kabuto

Kabutops

Kabutops

Rock / Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Fountain, Gilled, Swimmer

Passives: Harden, Leer, Metal Sound (+1 Special Attack), Battle Armor, Swift Swim (While in Raining weather or in water, your Speed is +2.), Weak Armor (When you are hit by a melee attack, your Defense is -3 and your Speed is +3 for 10 mins.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +4, Effect +4)

Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.
Ancient Power - Ranged(10ft) Rock Special Attack: 1/day 2d8. On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour.
Night Slash - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Night Slash is a critical hit.

Proficiencies: Rock / Water / Elemental Attack I / Parasitic / Slashing

607

Lileep / Cradily 

Lileep

Rock / Grass - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)
Passives: Suction Cups (You cannot be moved by a foe's attacks.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +1)
Acid Spray - Ranged(20ft) Poison Special Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Confuse Ray - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target becomes Confused.
Mega Drain - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d10. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Cradily

Rock / Grass - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 13

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Gilled, Swimmer

Passives: Amnesia (+2 Special Defense), Storm Drain (Any foe's ranged Water-type attacks within 25ft or any adjacent foe's Water-type attacks are negated and drawn to you. Your Special Attack is +2 until the end of your next turn whenever you negate a Water-type attack.), Suction Cups

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +2)
Energy Ball - Ranged(20ft) Grass Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Giga Drain - Melee Grass Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Brine - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target is at less than half of their Max HP, Brine has 5d8 for damage instead.

Lileep can be resurrected from fossils, which are often found in limestone rocks. Lileep are mostly sessile; in ancient times, they rooted themselves onto rocks on the sea floor and waved their tentacles around to capture prey. The two yellow rings on their bells are false eyes; their real eyes are on the tops of their heads, where they intently scan the vicinity for prey. Lileep often hide within large swathes of seaweed, capturing unsuspecting prey swimming through and swallowing them whole. Their tentacles resemble undersea flowers of sorts, attracting victims with their bright coloration and mesmerizing undulations. Once a wild Lileep roots itself on a rock, it will remain there for the rest of its life, regardless of how strong the waves or currents get. They are believed to have gone extinct roughly one-hundred million years ago due to the rapidly-cooling climate. As an ice age approached, water temperatures dropped and prey began migrating southwards to warmer seas. Lileep, being unwilling to move, went extinct as their primary food sources depleted.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 3 / Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Ocean Floors / Ocean Reefs

Evolution: Lileep

Cradily

Proficiencies: Grass / Rock / Glutton

608

Cradily were found rooted on rocks in warm seas. They have fake eye spots on their bells to deter predators, with their real eyes located on their true bodies. Their insides are very soft, held in place by the firmer green flesh surrounding it. Cradily can uproot themselves and slowly crawl around. They often nest in shallow waters, rooting to rocks and using their bodies to weigh themselves down and prevent themselves from being washed away by rough waves and tides. When the tide goes down, they roam around beaches to dig up prey from the sand. They can also crawl on the sea floor, using their tentacles to ensnare passing prey. Because Cradily lack teeth, their instead secrete acid from their tentacles to dissolve prey externally before feeding. When the weather grew cold during an ice age and their prey migrated south, Cradily were too slow to keep up and likely went extinct because of this.

Nosepass rarely move; at one time, it was thought that they were entirely immobile. When at rest, their noses always point north. Because of this, spelunkers find Nosepass immensely useful while traveling in caves. The reason for this peculiar trait is that their noses are magnetic. Two Nosepass cannot approach each other headfirst, because their noses will repel each other away. Thanks to their lack of movement, Nosepass rarely need to eat, but will feed primarily on stone and metal, drawing out iron from rocks. They will also pull Steel-type Pokťmon directly towards themselves, where they can then feed at their own leisure--though they may occasionally run into trouble when they accidentally pull in predators. During emergencies, Nosepass can spin part of their bodies rapidly to drill below to safety, though they can only move straight down in this manner. By controlling the strength of the magnetic force their noses exert, they can draw iron objects towards their bodies to use as armor against attacks or to trap unwary foes in magnetized iron. Curiously, the strength of their magnetism seems to correlate with temperature, weakening in warm weather but strengthening on cooler days.

609

Nosepass / Probopass 

Nosepass

Rock - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 18 Defense: 15 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Magnetic (controls magnetic fields), Sinker (can't swim), Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Harden (+1 Defense), Sturdy (If you would be brought from Max HP to 0 or below, you are instead brought to 1 HP.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)

Block - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d6 rounds.

Thunder Wave - Ranged(20ft) Electric Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Paralyzed.

Rock Slide - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Rock Attack: 1/day 5d12. Rock Slide has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Probopass

Rock / Steel - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 17 Special Defense: 15

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Groundshaper (can manipulate the ground), Hover (can hover), Magnetic, Modular (consists of 4 parts), Zapper

Passives: Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Sand Force (While in Sandstorming Weather, your Rock-type and Ground-type attacks deal +4 damage. and you don't take damage from Sandstorming weather.), Sturdy

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +2)
Power Gem - Ranged(20ft) Rock Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.
Discharge - Ranged(10ft burst) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Paralyzed.
Earth Power - Ranged(15ft) Ground Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Probopass are very slow and remain immobile most of the time. Their mustaches are iron filings attracted to their magnetic noses, pulled from iron-rich rocks in their caves. Probopass consume metallic objects, pulling them close with magnetic force. Their magnetism also enables them to freely control the three units surrounding their bodies, known as Mini-Noses. Probopass use these units to scout their surroundings, as they are capable of sensing fluctuations in the local magnetic field. They can then use this information to determine where metal is most abundant and begin making their gradual ways to such areas. Probopass can also use these units to pester attackers and drive them away; since they can control each of their Mini-Noses individually, they can harass foes from three directions at once to make up for their own sluggishness. These units do almost all of the work for their main bodies, which primarily issue commands and do little else. However, they can get lost if they stray too far away, forcing Probopass to search, or send its remaining Mini-Noses to search, for them. Because of their powerful magnetic fields, electronics tend to malfunction around them especially when they are manipulating their own magnetic field to levitate and hover around.

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Terravore, Habitat - Beaches / Caves

Evolution: Nosepass

Thunder Stone Probopass

Proficiencies: Electric / Rock / Steel / Magnetism / Stampeding (Probopass)

610

Omanyte / Omastar 

Omanyte

Rock / Water - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Shell Armor (Critical hits are treated as normal hits against you.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +4, Effect +2)
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Rollout - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Rollout against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Rollout's damage.

Omanyte went extinct two billion years ago, but has since been revived from fossils found in caves that were once submerged in water. They store air in their shells, which they can regulate to float at different depths in the sea. They twist their two tentacles to swim about. When attacked, Omanyte can withdraw into their hard shells. Revived individuals have demonstrated puzzle-solving skills. They have also shown the ability to change their responses to stimuli over time. When randomly presented with boxes that were either circular or rectangular, Omanyte would first investigate both kinds. However, when the circular ones were filled with dried food, and the rectangular ones were left empty, they began ignoring square boxes in favor of circular ones. When the two were switched, the Omanyte switched their preferences as well.

Omastar

Rock / Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 13 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 12

Skills: Fountain, Gilled, Swimmer

Passives: Leer, Shell Armor, Swift Swim (While in Raining weather or in water, your Speed is +2.), Weak Armor (When you are hit by a melee attack, your Defense is -3 and your Speed is +3 for 10 mins.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +6, Effect +3)

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Water 3, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Ocean Floors / Ocean Reefs

Evolution: Omanyte

Omastar

Proficiencies: Ice / Rock / Water / Prickly (Omastar)

Spike Cannon - Ranged(10ft) Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Spike Cannon has -2 during Accuracy Check. Spike Cannon is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Rock Blast - Ranged(10ft) Rock Attack: At-Will 1d4. Rock Blast has -2 during Accuracy Check. Rock Blast is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Hydro Pump - Ranged(30ft beam) Water Special Attack: 1/ day 5d12. Hydro Pump has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Raining.

611

Omastar can regulate the pressure within their shells to sink and rise to varying depths. They generally only use this to travel from shallow reefs to deep sea floors, and vice versa; they conserve energy by walking rather than swimming when hunting. Omastar are hunters, once they latch onto their prey with their tentacles, they will never let go unless their arms are severed off. They can regenerate their tentacles over the course of a few weeks. Omastar crack open shells of prey using their beak-like mouths, sucking out the innards of their prey. Omastar can also launch the spikes on their shells at foes. It is believed that cooling oceans were the reason that Omastar became extinct. Their prey began moving to warmer equatorial waters, but their own heavy shells prevented them from keeping up with their food supply.

Scientists have successfully resurrected Shieldon from fossils found in hardened clay. These fossils are remnants of their sturdy face plates; so far, no part of their softer torsos have been discovered in the fossil record. They lived approximately one-hundred million years ago. Their faces plates are very hard and are their main form of defense against attackers. They live in forests and woodlands, feeding on Berries and grasses in sunlit clearings. Their hard faces make them difficult targets for most predators, who generally avoid them due to their impervious armor, even their fossils are usually unscathed. Smarter predators likely noted that they were very vulnerable from behind and exploited that fact. They likely went extinct during an ice age that killed off most of the plants that they required for food.

612

Shieldon / Bastiodon 

Shieldon

Rock / Steel - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 18 Defense: 14 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 5

Skills: -
Passives: Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Metal Sound (+1 Special Attack), Sturdy (If you would be brought from Max HP to 0 or below, you are instead brought to 1 HP.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)

Protect - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Protect is used as a Reaction. When you would be hit by a move, use Protect to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack.

Taunt - Ranged(20ft) Dark Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target may only use attacks that target you or your allies for 1 min.

Ancient Power - Ranged(10ft) Rock Special Attack: 1/day 2d8. On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour.

Bastiodon, though slow, are very defensively strong. They are virtually invulnerable to frontal attacks, as their steel-hard faces can withstand immense damage. Though their rears and sides are not nearly as strong, they still are relatively tough compared to other species. Bastiodon live in herds of thirty or so members. They raise their young until adulthood. When their herds are threatened, Bastiodon will line up side by side and barricade their offspring; these impregnable walls easily defend Shieldon from most predators. This defense, however, is notably weak to aerial attacks. Their facial bones are so hard and oddly shaped that scientists once thought they were sort of horn or spike until the first Bastiodon was successfully resurrected. Despite their imposing size, Bastiodon are docile creatures. They spend most of their time traveling with their herds in search of Berries and grasses. They are thought to have died out due to an ice age; the cooling climate wiped out many plants, and their sluggishness and herd reliance made remaining lone Bastiodon easy targets for predators.

Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Forests / Woodlands

Evolution: Shieldon

Bastiodon

Bastiodon

Rock / Steel - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 19 Special Defense: 14

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 6

Skills: -

Passives: Iron Defense, Metal Sound, Soundproof (You are immune to sound-based attacks.), Sturdy

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +1)

Block - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d6 rounds.
Metal Burst - Ranged(40ft) Steel Effect: 1/day. Metal Burst is used as a Reaction. After an enemy within range hits you with a move that deals damage, use Metal Burst to deal exactly 1.5x the damage to the enemy that you received. Do not apply weakness or resistances.
Heavy Slam - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. Heavy Slam can only target lighter targets.

Proficiencies: Ground / Rock / Steel / Elemental Attack

613

Tyrunt / Tyrantrum 

Tyrunt

Rock / Dragon - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 5

Skills: -
Passives: Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Strong Jaw (Your biting attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)

Stomp - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Bide - Ranged(25ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Bide is a three-turn move. On the first and second turns, do nothing. On the third turn, release energy; all characters within range take damage equal to twice the damage you took since the first turn of Bide.

Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Tyrantrum

Rock / Dragon - Huge (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 7

Skills: -

Passives: Tail Whip, Rock Head (Your attacks that damage yourself on hit do not damage yourself.), Strong Jaw

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Tyrunt are prehistoric Pokťmon that roamed around jungles about one-hundred million years ago. Today, they can be resurrected from excavated fossils. Tyrunt have extremely powerful jawbones that can crunch with enough pressure to flatten automobile parts. These strong bones make their heads very heavy, so it is very difficult for Tyrunt to stand upright; consequently, they often hold their heads very close to the ground. Tyrunt are extremely finicky Pokťmon; they will throw wild tantrums when they are displeased by something. Commonly characterized as spoiled, they do not play well with others and often hurt smaller Pokťmon when roughhousing. Tyrunt also despise doing practically anything on their own; in the wild, Tyrunt were cared for entirely by their parents, who would bring them food, bathe them, and even lull them to sleep. Consequently, orphaned Tyrunt rarely survived for long without their parents.

Dragon Tail - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, move the target 40ft away.
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Head Smash - Melee Rock Attack: 1/day 7d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to half of the damage you deal. Head Smash has -2 during Accuracy Check.

Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Carnivore, Habitat - Jungles

Evolution: Tyrunt

Tyrantrum

Proficiencies: Dragon / Rock / Draconian / Fangs / Stampeding (Tyrantrum)

614

Tyrantrum were undoubtedly the apex predators of the jungles one-hundred million years ago. Their incredibly strong jaws can crush through solid metal like paper, and their vicious brutality made them a feared force. As the top of the food chain, Tyrantrum had little to worry about other than finding food and were believed to essentially rule ancient jungles like kings--they ate anything and travelled anywhere thy wanted to. Greatly protective of their young, Tyrantrum would go to great lengths in order to please their incredibly picky children. Some believed that the Tyrantrum of ancient times were fully covered in feathers, and the feather collar that modern revived Tyrantrum possess is merely what can be salvaged by modern technology.
615

Rockruff / Lycanroc 

Rockruff

Rock - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Tracker (can follow scents)

Passives: Howl (+1 Attack), Keen Eye (Your accuracy checks cannot be negatively affected by foes.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +1, Effect +3) Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned. Rock Throw - Ranged(20ft) Rock Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Lycanroc (Day)

Rock - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7 Speed: 13 (65 ft.) Attack: 13 Special Attack: 6

Skills: Tracker
Passives: Howl, Scary Face (+2 Speed), Keen Eye, Sand Rush (While in Sandstorming Weather, your Speed is +2 and you don't take damage from Sandstorming weather.), Steadfast (When you are Stunned, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +6)
Accelerock - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 2d6. Accelerock has Priority.
Rock Slide - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Rock Attack: 1/day 5d12. Rock Slide has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Rockruff will rub their stony collars onto their friends to greet them; though many find this uncomfortable or even painful, it is simply a sign of affection. Rockruff also have an uncanny ability to sense when their loved ones are upset and try their best to cheer them up; they are persistent in all aspects of life, including battle. As Rockruff near their evolution they will spend more and more time howling.

Rockruff are known for their friendliness as well as their ability to grow. Young Rockruff are initially gentle, easygoing creatures. As they grow, however, they gradually become brasher and more rambunctious. Rockruff are fiercely loyal no matter how old they are; they have great senses of smell and will never forget an odor, allowing them to find loved ones regardless of time or distance.
616

Lycanroc (Dusk)

Rock - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7 Speed: 13 (65 ft.) Attack: 13 Special Attack: 6

Skills: Tracker

Rockruff evolves into different forms depending on the time of day. Solitary Day Form Lycanroc dislike needless fighting and stay away from others because of it. These Lycanroc are blisteringly fast, using their speed to bewilder foes before attacking them with the jagged rocks in their manes; their claws and fangs are also very sharp. Night Form Lycanroc are also solitary, and specialize in countering attacks; they will goad foes into striking by drawing close and taunting them before crushing them against their rocky manes with enough force to shatter bone. They do not mind pain; in fact, the fervor of battle against strong foes causes their eyes to glow red and their blood to boil. It is said these Lycanroc may begin to foster resentment towards trainers that restrict their tactics, but deeply trust those that capitalize on their strengths. Finally, the rare Dusk Form Lycanroc are quite calm and stoic, but become very heated in combat, almost a medium of the other two forms. This makes sense, since this rare form only occurs when a Rockruff evolves at dusk or dawn.

Passives: Howl, Scary Face, Keen Eye, Own Tempo (You are immune to being Confused.), Tough Claws (Your slashing attacks deal +4 damage.)
Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +6)
Thrash - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. Thrash is a two -turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.
Rock Slide - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Rock Attack: 1/day 5d12. Rock Slide has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Lycanroc (Night)
Rock - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 13 Special Attack: 6

Skills: Tracker

Passives: Howl, Scary Face, Keen Eye, No Guard (You cannot miss your attacks, and attacks made against you cannot miss.), Vital Spirit (You are immune to being put to Sleep.)

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Badlands / Deserts / Forests / Mountains

Evolution: Rockruff

Lycanroc Day Form,

During Dawn or Dusk Lycanroc Dusk Form,

Lycanroc Night Form

Proficiencies: Rock / Fangs / Slashing (Lycanroc)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +5)
Counter - Melee Fighting Effect: 1/day. Counter is used as a Reaction. After an enemy hits you with a melee Attack move that deals damage, use Counter to deal exactly twice the damage to the enemy that you received. Do not apply weakness or resistances.
Rock Slide - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Rock Attack: 1/day 5d12. Rock Slide has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

617

Aerodactyl 
Rock / Flying - Huge (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 8
Speed: 13 (65 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 6
Skills: Flight (can fly)
Passives: Pressure (If you are hit by a 3/day attack, the attacker can't use that attack for the remainder of the day.), Rock Head (Your attacks that damage yourself on hit do not damage yourself.), Unnerve (Foes within 25ft of you cannot consume food.)

Aerodactyl ruled prehistoric skies. They once glided through the air at high speeds, shrieking high-pitched cries that struck fear in the hearts of Pokťmon everywhere. Their saw-like, serrated fangs can cut through flesh with ease. When Aerodactyl hunt, they aim for the throats of prey. They attack from above, tearing out the necks of victims with their teeth. Though superb fliers, they were quite slow and clumsy on land. Surprisingly, Aerodactyl are omnivores, eating various fruits and Berries in addition to meat. It is widely believed that a meteor impact caused the extinction of Aerodactyl.

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +6)

Ancient Power - Ranged(10ft) Rock Special Attack: 1/day 2d8. On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour.

Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Sky Drop - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Sky Drop is a two-turn move. On the first turn, an adjacent character is bound to you, then you fly up to 40 ft straight up; they can't use ranged moves until your next turn. On the second turn, you both return to the ground, they are no longer bound to you, and you can roll Sky Drop's Accuracy Check and damage.
Biology: Egg Group - Flying / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 20 Days, Diet - Carnivore, Habitat - Forests / Mountains
Proficiencies: Flying / Rock / Elemental Attack F / Fangs

Carbink live deep beneath the surface; sometimes, they can even be found lying dormant in solid rock, having been encased through the earth's slow geological processes. These creatures are believed to be hundreds of thousands of years old. They are rarely seen in the open because of their seclusion and are rumored to have been born out of the immense heat and pressure of the underground. Intense pressure has made them incredibly hard; some of the carbon within their bodies has even been compressed into diamond as a result. They can fire beams of energy from their gems. Carbink are most commonly seen aboveground when accidentally uncovered during construction projects or cave excavations, having been lying dormant. They are popular Pokťmon for their beautiful gemstones, which are usually spotless; groups of them will rub their soft manes on one another to polish each other's gems. Occasionally, subterranean activity may unearth some Carbink into cave systems or near the bases of mountains.

618

Carbink 

Klawf 

Rock / Fairy - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Rock - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 16 Special Defense: 15

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 14 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 5

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Hover (can hover)
Passives: Harden (+1 Defense), Sharpen (+1 Attack), Clear Body (Your stats cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.), Sturdy (If you would be brought from Max HP to 0 or below, you are instead brought to 1 HP.)
Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Stealth Rock - Ranged(5ft) Rock Effect: 3/day. Place a Stealth Rock Hazard adjacent to you. Stealth Rock Hazard has the following ability: If a foe moves within 20 ft of Stealth Rock Hazard, it will hurl itself at the foe, destroying itself and dealing 2d12 Rock-type damage to the foe without needing an Accuracy Check. This Hazard disappears after 2 mins.
Power Gem - Ranged(20ft) Rock Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.
Moonblast - Ranged(20ft) Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.
Biology: Egg Group - Fairy / Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Terravore, Habitat - Caves / Mountains
Proficiencies: Fairy / Rock / Weird

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain), Strength (very strong)
Passives: Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Swords Dance (+2 Attack), Anger Shell (While you are below 20 HP, your attacks deal +4 damage.), Regenerator (When returned to a Poke Ball, you recover to Max HP after being stored for 1 hour.), Shell Armor (Critical hits are treated as normal hits against you.)
Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)
Metal Claw - Melee Steel Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.
Rock Slide - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Rock Attack: 1/day 5d12. Rock Slide has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Protect - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Protect is used as a Reaction. When you would be hit by a move, use Protect to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack.
Biology: Egg Group - Water 3, Egg Hatch Rate - 20 Days, Diet - Carnivore, Habitat - Caves / Mountains

Proficiencies: Rock / Bruiser

619

Klawf are ambush predators. They use their strong claws

to grip onto rough cliff faces, suspending themselves up-

Lunatone are found near the sites of meteor crashes.

side down. When prey pass by underneath, they pounce on They float using telekinetic powers, becoming active at

them from above. Their eyes swivel freely in all directions, allowing them to scout of their surroundings from all angles. Because gravity causes blood to rush to their heads

night when the moon is bright. Their power appears to be connected with the lunar cycle, becoming strongest when

when upside-down, however, they cannot remain in this the moon is full. It is during this time that Lunatone are

state for long and must adjust themselves periodically. In most active and commonly seen. As the moon ebbs, so

direct combat, Klawf scuttle from side to side in order to does their strength. When the new moon arrives, Lunatone

dodge enemy attacks before launching strikes of their own. lose all of their power and hide away until the moon waxes

Once they clamp onto enemies, they will not let go. Holding foes in place with one claw, they utilize the other to pum-

again. Their ominous, glowing red eyes can paralyze on-

mel them repeatedly, breaking through defenses and strik- lookers with fear. Staring into them for too long can put

ing weak spots. If one of their claws detaches, it will grow observers to sleep. During the day or a new moon, howev-

back after some time.

er, their eyes appear faded and dull.

Solrock are always expressionless, but seem to be able to read what opponents are thinking in battle. Solrock appear to be closely related to the sun; they are active during the day from sunrise to sunset, for example. The more sunlight they are exposed to, the stronger they become. When the sun is obscured by clouds, Solrock weaken greatly. On sunny days, groups of them will line up and face the sun to soak in rays of sunlight. In battle, Solrock will spin their bodies rapidly. As they do so, they release bright flashes of light like miniature suns. The faster they spin, the brighter the light they release. Eventually, Solrock will run out of light to emit, at which point they will have to recharge by basking in sunlight again. Solrock radiate intense heat as they spin, even when not releasing light.
620

Lunatone 

Solrock 

Rock / Psychic - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight) Hit Points: 54 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 10

Rock / Psychic - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight) Hit Points: 54 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Flight (can fly), Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)

Passives: Cosmic Power (+1 Defense, +1 Special Defense), Harden (+1 Defense), Levitate (You are immune to Groundtype moves while you are airborne.)

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Flight (can fly), Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)

Passives: Cosmic Power (+1 Defense, +1 Special Defense), Harden (+1 Defense), Levitate (You are immune to Groundtype moves while you are airborne.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +5, Effect +3) Hypnosis - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Effect: 3/day. Hypnosis has -4 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is put Asleep. Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins. Stone Edge - Ranged(25ft) Rock Attack: 1/day 5d12. Stone Edge has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Stone Edge is a critical hit.
Biology: Egg Group - Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 13 Days, Diet - Phototroph, Habitat - Caves / Mountains

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)
Fire Spin - Ranged(20ft) Fire Special Attack: 3/day 1d4. On hit, the target is bound in place for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 special damage on its turns.
Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Solar Beam - Ranged(30ft beam) Grass Special Attack: 1/ day 5d12. Solar Beam is a two-turn move unless it is Sunny. On the first turn, do nothing. On the second turn or if it is Sunny, roll Solar Beam's Accuracy Check and damage.

Proficiencies: Fairy / Psychic / Rock

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 13 Days, Diet - Phototroph, Habitat - Caves / Mountains
Proficiencies: Fire / Rock / Psychic

621

Minior 

Rock / Flying - Small (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 36 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 6

Minior Core Revealed - Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 14 (70 ft.) Attack: 10 Special Attack: 10

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Autotomize (+2 Speed), Defense Curl (+1 Defense), Shields Down (When Minior's HP is at or below half of its max hit points, its form changes to Core Revealed. While Minior is not in its Core Revealed form, it is immune to afflictions.)
Moves (Attack +3/+5, Special Attack +3/+5, Effect +4/+7)
Acrobatics - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Acrobatics cannot be used if you have a held item.
Confuse Ray - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target becomes Confused.
Power Gem - Ranged(20ft) Rock Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Minior can be found living most of their lives in the stratosphere, being especially abundant in the ozone layer. They collect and eat dust in the air, gradually becoming heavier. Eventually, they become heavy enough to fall to the earth; when they land, their shells break away to reveal their cores. These cores can wildly range in color depending on the elements present in the dust the Minior ate. Strong impacts can also fragment Minior shells. Without their protection, Minior are faster, but they are also frailer; they will eventually die from exposure after landing. Minior can roll around on the ground to pick up dirt and reharden their shells to protect their core.

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 13 Days, Diet - Pollutivore / Terravore, Habitat - Mountains
Proficiencies: Ground / Psychic / Rock

622

Stonjourner 

Rock - Huge (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 14 Special Defense: 2

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 2

Skills: Sinker (can't swim)

Passives: Rock Polish (+2 Speed), Power Spot (Attacks made within 10ft of you deal +4 damage, regardless if the attacker is friend or foe.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +1, Effect +4)
Stomp - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Stealth Rock - Ranged(5ft) Rock Effect: 3/day. Place a Stealth Rock Hazard adjacent to you. Stealth Rock Hazard has the following ability: If a foe moves within 20 ft of Stealth Rock Hazard, it will hurl itself at the foe, destroying itself and dealing 2d12 Rock-type damage to the foe without needing an Accuracy Check. This Hazard disappears after 2 mins.
Stone Edge - Ranged(25ft) Rock Attack: 1/day 5d12. Stone Edge has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Stone Edge is a critical hit.
Biology: Egg Group - Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 20 Days, Diet - Phototroph / Terravore, Habitat - Grasslands / Ruins

Stonjourner are mysterious Pokťmon that, despite being Rock-types, are rarely found anywhere near actual sources of stone. Instead, they prefer to dwell on open grasslands and ancient ruins. Stonjourner have a peculiar habit of watching the sun for long stretches of time. All Stonjourner will at the very least observe the sun at its zenith as well as when it reaches horizon. Once a year, Stonjourner across the globe will journey to specific areas of the world and stand together, motionless, in circles. This event occurs at a specific date and time that all individuals seem to know regardless of time zones, weather, or other factors. They will remain this way until the sun sets, and then disperse as if nothing had happened. Though they initially appear immobile, Stonjourner can deliver very powerful kicks with their huge, stony legs; they dislike being interrupted from their sun-gazing and will retaliate this way if bothered.

Proficiencies: Ground / Rock / Kicks

623

Aron / Lairon / Aggron 

Aron

Steel / Rock - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Sinker (can't swim)

Passives: Harden (+1 Defense), Sturdy (If you would be brought from Max HP to 0 or below, you are instead brought to 1 HP.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)
Mud-Slap - Ranged(5ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 1d6. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.
Metal Claw - Melee Steel Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.
Rock Tomb - Ranged(15ft) Rock Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Lairon

Steel / Rock - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 16 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Sinker

Passives: Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Rock Head (Your attacks that damage yourself on hit do not damage yourself.), Sturdy

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)

Protect - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Protect is used as a Reaction. When you would be hit by a move, use Protect to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack.

Iron Head - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Take Down - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.

Aron have carapaces of solid steel. They live deep within mountains, feeding on iron ore to strengthen their hides. As Aron grow, their periodically shed their armor to grow new sets. When iron grows scarce, herds of Aron may leave their mountain homes in search of food. This often takes them into urban towns and cities, where they can wreak havoc on iron structures. Aron will congregate around train tracks, bridges, and cars to feast on the abundant metals in them. Most iron mining operations will section off areas exclusively for Aron and their evolutions to feed, hoping to placate them and lessen the chances of them leaving their mountains to feed in urban areas.

624

Lairon are territorial. Lairon will fight for sole feeding rights in territories. They will bash heads with one another until one of them is defeated. The sound of their duels can be heard throughout their cavern homes. In addition to digging out iron ore for food, Lairon also drink spring water rich in minerals to fortify their armor. When they come across springs, they will often drink so much that they will be unable to eat for the rest of the day. Their affinity for iron has led to increasingly common encounters with human miners. As Lairon are highly aggressive Pokťmon, miners are advised to abandon their work if approached by one because they will not hesitate to attack if they feel threatened. Once they are satiated with iron, they will generally leave without causing any more trouble. Lairon enjoy showing off their strength by bashing their heads against boulders. They gauge their power by the size and number of sparks that fly out upon contact.

Aggron

Steel / Rock - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 20 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Sinker
Passives: Autotomize (+2 Speed), Iron Defense, Rock Head, Sturdy

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Rock Slide - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Rock Attack: 1/day

5d12. Rock Slide has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if

you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is

Stunned.

Aggron are highly territorial, claiming entire mountains as their own. They are very protective of their mountains, going to great lengths to keep them safe. Most obviously, this means fending off intruders that attempt to trespass

Iron Tail - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. Iron Tail has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

on their land. However, Aggron will also plant trees, divert Heavy Slam - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. Heavy Slam

streams, or rearrange boulders to clean up their domains. can only target lighter targets. In particular, lone Aggron have been known to restore are-

as ravaged by rockslides and wildfires back to their former

glory without any outside help. Their ages can be measured

by the lengths of their horns. One can also estimate how Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 10

many battles an Aggron has fought in by the number of

Days, Diet - Terravore, Habitat - Caves / Mountains

scars it bears on its metallic hide. They are very proud of their scars, showing them off as mementos of their conquests. Aggron use their horns to dig deep into bedrock in

Evolution: Aron Lairon

Aggron

Proficiencies: Rock / Steel / Draconian (Lairon / Aggron)

search of iron. Though Aggron will relentlessly thrash those

/ Elemental Attack (Aggron) / Punches (Aggron)

who deface their environments, they will leave travelers

/ Stampeding (Aggron)

who treat the land with respect alone.

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 625

Beldum / Metang / Metagross 

Beldum

Steel / Psychic - Small (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Flight (can fly), Magnetic (controls magnetic fields)

Passives: Clear Body (Your stats cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)

Splash - Melee Normal Effect: At-Will. Instead of making an Accuracy Check, roll 1d20. On 18 or higher, all adjacent foes are moved 5 ft away from the user.

Bide - Ranged(25ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Bide is a three-turn move. On the first and second turns, do nothing. On the third turn, release energy; all characters within range take damage equal to twice the damage you took since the first turn of Bide.
Take Down - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.

Metang

Steel / Psychic - Medium (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Flight, Magnetic, Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)

Passives: Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Clear Body

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Curiously, Beldum have no circulatory system in their bodies, instead using magnetism to transport minerals within themselves. They generate magnetic forces that repel them from the earth's natural poles, allowing them to float. All the cells in their bodies are magnetic, though they can control the strength of the magnetic forces they generate. They can communicate with each other over long distances by sending magnetic pulses. When close together, they can also use telepathy to converse. Because of this, Beldum in swarms will move together in perfect unison. They can sleep at any angle, even upside-down or sideways; they often anchor themselves to the faces of cliff when resting by using the claws on their rears. When threatened, Beldum will tackle foes head-on; their density and weight mean that their headbutts are usually more than enough to deter attackers. They will also use their magnetism to draw in and slash at metallic enemies, and will release a magnetic pulse if surrounded that can disrupt nearby electronics.

Metal Claw - Melee Steel Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.

Pursuit - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d6. Pursuit deals +6 damage to a target if they ended their turn further away from you during the start of their turn.

626

Metang uses their two brains to float above the ground using magnetic force. When they do so, they rotate their arms so that their claws face rearwards like thrusters, streamlining their silhouettes. These powerful claws can tear through thick iron sheets like silk. Their bodies are incredibly hard; crashing straight into stone walls wouldn't scratch them. Their two separate brains do not make them more intelligent than Beldum, but do make them think twice as fast; Metang are very useful for solving complex equations or cracking passwords through brute force, as they can use both of their brains to test possible solutions in half the time. They will chase down prey and then grasp them tightly with their two claws to bring them down.

Metagross

Steel / Psychic - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 15 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 14

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Flight, Intelligence (very smart), Magnetic, Telekinetic

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Iron Defense, Clear Body

Upon evolution into Metagross, they double their brain cores. granting them a total of four brains working in unison. This gives them more raw computational power

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)
Hammer Arm - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

than a supercomputer. They use this ability to analyze situations in battle, factoring in aspects such as accuracy, probability, and even physics to mathematically determine the best possible course of action. Physically, they aren't lacking, either, capable of pummeling foes down with their powerful arms. Their iron-hard bodies can weather many

Zen Headbutt - Melee Psychic Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Meteor Mash - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.

attacks with ease. They use their heavy bodies and sharp

claws to pin down prey, consuming them with the mouths Biology: Egg Group - Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 20 Days,

on their undersides. By tucking in their four legs, Metagross Diet - Terravore, Habitat - Badlands / Mountains

can hover in the air via magnetic force. Though this is faster

than walking, it is also more tiring. The crosses on their fac- Evolution: Beldum

Metang

Metagross

es grow with age; the larger the crosses, the older their owners are.

Proficiencies: Psychic / Steel / Punches / Slashing (Metagross) / Stampeding (Metagross)

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 627

Goomy / Sliggoo / Goodra (Iron-rich) 

Goomy

Dragon - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Amorphous (can change their body into a liquid-like state), Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain)

Passives: Hydration (While in Raining weather, you are cured of any afflictions.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Bubble - Ranged(15ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Sliggoo (Iron-rich)

Steel / Dragon - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 8

Skills: -

Passives: Shelter (+3 Defense), Sap Sipper (You are immune to Grass-type attacks. If you would be hit by a Grass-type attack, your Attack is +2 for 10 mins.), Shell Armor (Critical hits are treated as normal hits against you.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +2)

Iron Head - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Dragon Breath - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: AtWill 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Rain Dance - Water Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Raining Weather with a 60ft diameter. Within the Raining weather, Water-type attacks deal an additional 8 damage and Fire-type attacks deal 8 less damage. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

Goomy have no bones, chitin, or other hard tissues within their mostly-aquatic bodies whatsoever, allowing them to contort themselves and squeeze through tight spaces. Goomy are far from defenseless; their gooey bodies are covered in slick films of special mucus that cause many physical attacks to slide off of them harmlessly. It also possesses a moderate paralyzing agent that can stun those that try to grab them. This mucus also helps keep these Pokťmon hydrated outside of wet environments, though it can only keep the Pokťmon protected temporarily; Goomy must spend most of their time resting in damp, shady areas in order to keep their slimy bodies from drying out, as they breathe through their skin. Despite these protections, Goomy are still timid creatures that will hide as soon as their horns sense danger. These horns are very sensitive to changes in air flow and humidity, allowing them to detect others from afar.

Evolution Shift compatible with Goomy family (186)
628

After dwelling in the iron-rich swamps for generations, Sliggoo have developed the ability to incorporate it into their bodies as shells. Mixing with the mucus they naturally secrete, it hardens into a composite material akin to steel. This is a humorous return to form for the species, having likely evolved to lose their shells from a past ancestor only to regain them once again. These shells serve to protect the Pokťmon from harm, and the case of Sliggoo, their armor is nigh-impenetrable to even the strongest claws and beaks. The durability comes at a cost, however, and the extra weight makes it difficult for these Pokťmon to maneuver. In consequence, Sliggoo only move when absolutely necessary, spending long stretches of time rooted in one spot; when danger arrives, they simply tuck their heads into their shells and wait for it to pass. Perhaps because of this, Sliggoo frequently appear to be melancholic and even exhausted with the world.

Goodra (Iron-rich)

Steel / Dragon - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 14 Special Defense: 16

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 11

Skills: -

Passives: Gooey (+1 Speed), Tearful Look (+1 Defense, +1 Special Defense), Shelter, Sap Sipper, Shell Armor

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)

Outrage - Melee Dragon Attack: 1/day 5d12. Outrage is a

two-turn move. On each turn, move to the closest charac-

ter within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's

Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your sec-

ond turn you are Confused.

Iron-dense Sliggoo that evolve into Goodra do manage

to gain some of their energy back. In fact, their sociability is Dragon Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: 3/day

in some ways completely reverses; rather than spending

3d10.

most of their time alone, Goodra cannot stand solitude and Sludge Bomb - Ranged(25ft, 5ft blast) Poison Special Attack:

are extremely clingy. When they become attached to some- 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy

thing or someone, they will go on rampages in the event of Check, all targets are Poisoned.

separation until they are reunited. Said objects of their

affection are almost always coated in thick layers of mucus

from their cuddling. Goodra are able to control the thickness and hardness of their metal-like shells by adjusting the amount and proportion of mucus to iron. This allows them to be as strong as fortresses in some situations while

Biology: Egg Group - Dragon / Water 3, Egg Hatch Rate - 20 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Marshes / Swamps

Evolution: Goomy

Iron-rich wetlands

being light and deceptively agile in others. In stressful situa- Sliggoo (Iron-rich)

Goodra (Iron-rich)

tions, Goodra will withdraw entirely into their shells, some-

times rocking back and forth repeatedly. They will stick

Proficiencies: Dragon

their feelers out of their shell to probe the surrounding ar-

/ Steel (Sliggoo Iron-rich)

ea in order to gauge the situation, and only emerge after

/ Draconian (Goodra Iron-rich)

the situation calms. Only trusted individuals can draw them

/ Elemental Attack (Goodra Iron-rich)

out of their shells, literally.

/ Weather (Goodra Iron-rich)

*Goomy is also capable of evolving into Sliggoo. A duplicate Goomy entry followed by it's alternate evolution is located with other Dragon-type Pokťmon.
629

Honedge / Doublade / Aegislash 

Honedge

Steel / Ghost - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Autotomize (+2 Speed), Swords Dance (+2 Attack), No Guard (You cannot miss your attacks, and attacks made against you cannot miss.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Fury Cutter - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Fury Cutter against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Fury Cutter's damage.
Pursuit - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d6. Pursuit deals +6 damage to a target if they ended their turn further away from you during the start of their turn.
Shadow Sneak - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 2d6. Shadow Sneak has Priority.

Doublade

Steel / Ghost - Medium (Size), Light (Weight) Hit Points: 36 Defense: 17 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Flight, Modular (consists of 2 parts)

Passives: Autotomize, Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Swords Dance, No Guard

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Aerial Ace - Melee Flying Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense.
Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.
Night Slash - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Night Slash is a critical hit.

Honedge are often found near the ruins of medieval castles, protecting their old kingdoms. Usually, Honedge swords will remain in their sheathes to prevent their blades from becoming worn and rusted. When attacking, however, they will unsheathe themselves to reveal their sharpened blades, holding their sheathes in their tassels. A slash from a Honedge is believed to not only injure a being physically, but also damage its soul as well. Honedge feed on life energy by wrapping their tassels around another's appendage and draining its life force through its cloth; it will feed until its victim is completely exhausted.

630

Doublade has two blades that are able to communicate via telepathy and coordinate their attacks to viciously slash opponents twice as efficiently. The sheer speed at which Doublade can slash at makes their attacks nearly impossible to parry for even the most skilled swordsmen. These Pokťmon can alternate nimbly to create an undefendable offense. They will rub their blades together prior to combat in order to unnerve foes with a scraping metallic sound. Like Honedge, Doublade feed by draining the life energy of beings by gripping their limbs with their tassels. The two blades cannot stray far from each other; for an unknown reason, if they are too far away from their plaque, they will fall to the ground as lifeless swords that can only be reanimated if they are somehow re-sheathed. There have been recorded incidents in which each sword of a Doublade had latched onto different beings within the same vicinity, or even both grabbed onto different limbs of the same unfortunate victim. If grabbed by a Doublade, one should run as far away as possible from the plaque, as the blades will not risk losing their own spirits by straying too far.

Aegislash (Shield)
Steel / Ghost - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 36 Defense: 16 Special Defense: 14

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 5

Aegislash (Sword)

Steel / Ghost - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 16

Special Attack: 14

Skills: Flight

Wild Aegislash are thought to be able to identify the traits of people by examining their souls. They seek out those who are endowed with qualities of leadership and are said to possess and manipulate them for their own purposes while pretending to serve them. Trained Aegislash seem to only respect trainers who display signs of leadership themselves. In battle, Aegislash alternate between two forms--in their Sword Form, they are able to deliver powerful slashes at opponents with their heavy swords, while in their Shield Form, they can withstand the toughest of blows thanks to their sturdy shields and spectral barriers.

Passives: Autotomize, Iron Defense, Swords Dance, Stance Change (Aegislash has two forms it constantly changes between. When you attack a foe, before making your accuracy check change into your Sword Form. When using a reaction move such as King's Shield or Protect, or a protective move like Safeguard or Light Screen, immediately change to Shield Form.)
Moves (Attack +3/+8, Special Attack +2/+7, Effect +4)
Iron Head - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
King's Shield - Self Steel Effect: 1/day. King's Shield is used as a Reaction. If you would be hit by a melee attack, use King's Shield to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack, and also the attacker's Attack is -4 for 10 mins.

Sacred Sword - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d10. Sacred Sword has +2 during Accuracy Check.

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Psiotroph, Habitat - Ruins / Urban Abandoned

Evolution: Honedge Aegislash

Doublade

Dusk Stone

Proficiencies: Ghost / Steel / Slashing

631

Klink / Klang / Klinklang 

Klink

Steel - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Hover (can hover), Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Minus (If at least one ally has Plus or Minus within 10ft of you, you have +3 Special Attack.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)
Vise Grip - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8.
Thunder Shock - Ranged(20ft) Electric Special Attack: AtWill 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Gear Grind - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 2d8. Gear Grind is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.

Klang

Steel - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Hover, Zapper

Passives: Autotomize (+2 Speed), Screech (+2 Attack), Minus

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Charge Beam - Ranged(10ft beam) Electric Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, your Special Attack is +1 for 10 mins.

Mirror Shot - Ranged(20ft) Steel Special Attack: At-Will 2d8.

Discharge - Ranged(10ft burst) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Paralyzed.

Klink can be found in industrial areas in addition to underground caves. The two units that comprise a Klink are each known as minigears. Though they appear identical, no two minigears are alike; each one fits into exactly one other minigear, while any others from other Klink that attempt to interlock are rejected. Klink spin effortlessly to generate energy, jumpstarted by magnetic force. The spin from one unit pushes the other, which pushes back, and so on as a perpetual motion system. If Klink become separated after interlocking, both minigears will enter an inert state. By interlocking them again and setting them in motion, however, they will reanimate as if nothing had happened. Some modern archaeologists believe that Klink inspired ancient peoples to design primitive gears based on recent evidence.

632

Klang gain third gears that spin in tandem with their first two. These additional gears give these Pokťmon a greater range of abilities; by spinning each of their gears at varying speeds, Klang can communicate with each other. Direction appears to indicate emotions, while speed relates to the intensity of these feelings. Like Klink, Klang are powered by the perpetual spinning of their minigears. The loss of a gear will cause them to become inert; in the wild, this is essentially akin to death, as it is unlikely that minigears will be able to reattach themselves without the ability to move. In extreme situations, Klang will adjust their minigears such that all three connect and spin in tandem; this sharply increases their rotation speed and combat prowess.

Klinklang

Steel - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight) Hit Points: 36 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 9 Speed: 13 (75 ft.) Attack: 13 Special Attack: 7

Skills: Hover, Zapper
Passives: Autotomize, Screech, Shift Gear (+1 Attack, +2 Speed), Clear Body (Your stats cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.), Minus

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +6)

Klinklang gain fourth gears upon evolution, which are not sentient. The red cores of these gears functions as energy tanks that stores the energy generated while these

Lock-On - Ranged(40ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. Lock-On can't miss. Your next attack against the same target will not miss.

Pokťmon spin. These additions enable Klinklang to stay

Zap Cannon - Ranged(30ft) Electric Special Attack: 1/day

active even when missing gears or not spinning. Their ener- 5d12. Zap Cannon has ≠5 during Accuracy Check. On hit

gy cores will glow weakly when they are nearly drained; if Klinklang lights go out, it means that it has exhausted all of its stored energy and will enter an inert state. The fourth gears also serve secondary purposes as weapons in battle. By spinning these gears quickly, Klinklang can rapidly

the target is Paralyzed.
Hyper Beam - Ranged(25ft beam) Normal Special Attack: 1/ day 5d20. Hyper Beam has a recharge turn and -2 during Accuracy Check.

charge their cores and cause them to glow brightly. Then, they can release the stored electrical energy through the Biology: Egg Group - Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, spikes on their large gears to blast opponents. Though they Diet - Ergovore, Habitat - Caves / Urban Plants

appear unintelligent, Klinklang have demonstrated consid- Evolution: Klink erable ability to comprehend language and emotion, ex-

Klang

Klinklang

pressing this through changes in the spinning of their

Proficiencies: Electric / Steel / Magnetism

gears.

633

Bronzor / Bronzong 

Bronzor

Steel / Psychic - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 2

Special Attack: 2

Skills: Hover (can hover), Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)

Passives: Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Levitate (You are immune to Ground-type moves while you are airborne.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +1, Effect +1) Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused. Confuse Ray - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target becomes Confused. Hypnosis - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Effect: 3/day. Hypnosis has -4 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is put Asleep.
Bronzong
Steel / Psychic - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight) Hit Points: 42 Defense: 14 Special Defense: 12

Bronzor are ancient Pokťmon believed to have been around since man first formed a civilization. The herbshaped pattern on their backs, is what hold their power. Researchers speculate that the plant-like design indicate that Bronzor had some connection with harvests and fertility. The shined back of a Bronzor will always reflect the truth, dispelling illusions or disguises, though the Pokťmon dislike being polished. They float about taking in sun to charge themselves with energy.

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Hover, Telekinetic

Passives: Iron Defense, Metal Sound (+1 Special Attack), Heatproof (Fire-type attacks are resisted by you. If you are already resistant to Fire-type, remove an additional damage die.), Levitate

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Ergovore / Phototroph, Habitat - Caves / Ruins

Evolution: Bronzor

Bronzong

Proficiencies: Psychic / Steel / Stampeding (Bronzong) / Weather (Bronzong)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +1)

Block - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d6 rounds.
Extrasensory - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Heavy Slam - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. Heavy Slam can only target lighter targets.

634

The first Bronzong of modern times was discovered

Cufant originate from the tropics, though they have

entirely accidentally, found dormant during construction of been successfully brought over to more temperate regions.

a high-rise building. It was buried deep beneath the

They prefer to spend their time near water on open

surface, along with various other ancient artifacts. Upon savannas or jungle clearings. Where they are endemic,

further examination, scientists concluded that it had been Cufant are famous for their spectacular load-bearing

asleep for about two thousand years. Ancient civilizations ability. They can carry half a ton of weight without even

thought that by ringing their gong-like bells, Bronzong

breaking a sweat. It is for this reason that they were

could open portals to other dimensions and summon rain imported into regions across the globe, with varying rates

clouds. People would leave out offerings and complete

of success. Their bodies are made of solid copper. This

ritualistic dances in hopes of appeasing these Pokťmon

means that they will tarnish a vibrant green color when in

during poor weather. Different Bronzong appear to be able contact with water. Oftentimes, Cufant feet will be

to create various effects on the weather when trained to do tarnished from walking near rivers, while its trunk will be

so. Bronzong appear to demonstrate an odd resistance to fire. Bronzong can undergo long periods of dormancy. When in this state, their eyes turn white, they stop floating, and they become immobile.

similarly tarnished from drinking in watering holes. Their heads and backs may also sport a mottled green from rainstorms. These tarnished areas are less affected by further weather conditions, and Cufant are often ready for

evolution when their entire bodies have turned green

through this reaction. Cufant use their powerful trunks to

dig through the earth in search of copper to eat.

635

Cufant / Copperajah 

Cufant

Steel - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Groundshaper (can manipulate the ground), Strength (very strong)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Sheer Force (Your attacks that have additional effects that affect the target may deal +4 damage, but will not have those additional effects.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Rock Smash - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Rollout - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Rollout against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Rollout's damage.
Bulldoze - Ranged(20ft burst) Ground Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, all target's Speed are -1 for 10 mins.

Copperajah

Steel - Huge (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 72 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Groundshaper, Strength Passives: Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Sheer Force
Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +4, Effect +1)
Play Rough - Melee Fairy Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Attack is -1 for 10 mins.
Iron Head - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned. High Horsepower - Melee Ground Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Copperajah dwell in herds near sources of fresh water. Though naturally endemic to the tropics, they have been imported to other regions in past centuries and now exist elsewhere as domesticated populations. Copperajah are valued for their immense strength, helping transport heavy loads across long distances. Copperajah also have powerful trunks that can crush stone into dust, allowing them to sift through the rubble in search of copper. Herds of them can be seen working together to pulverize entire mountains rich in the metal. Their copper skin has completely tarnished, rendering it impervious to water. These Pokťmon are quite intelligent and protective of others in their herd. They are said to have long memories that will never forget a face.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Terravore, Habitat - Jungles / Rivers / Savannas

Evolution: Cufant

Copperajah

Proficiencies: Ground / Steel / Stampeding (Copperajah)

This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2. 636

Duraludon / Archaludon 

Duraludon

Steel / Dragon - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 14 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 12

Skills: Sinker (can't swim)

Passives: Hone Claws (+2 Attack), Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Stalwart (Your attacks cannot be redirected by passives or any other effect (except by interception), instead only hitting a target your attack was directed at.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +6, Effect +4)

Dragon Claw - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Rock Smash - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Metal Burst - Ranged(40ft) Steel Effect: 1/day. Metal Burst is used as a Reaction. After an enemy within range hits you with a move that deals damage, use Metal Burst to deal exactly 1.5x the damage to the enemy that you received. Do not apply weakness or resistances.

This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2.

Duraludon are most well-known for their hard, shiny bodies. They are composed of a special lightweight metal alloy, allowing these large creatures to move with great agility while remaining very resilient to attacks. The alloy is also highly reflective, blinding opponents using the light of the sun. Its main drawback is that it rusts easily, meaning that Duraludon must take care to avoid water. Thus, they prefer to inhabit caves or mountains with large overhanging ridges they can hide under to stay dry from the rain. Duraludon use their two asymmetric hands to grind stone into rubble before consuming it. They must consume a variety of minerals in order to strengthen their bodies.

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore / Terravore, Habitat - Caves / Mountains

Evolution: Duraludon

Archaludon

Proficiencies: Dragon / Steel / Draconian / Elemental Attack E / Stampeding

Archaludon

Steel / Dragon - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 15 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 13

Skills: Sinker, Zapper (can produce electricity)
Passives: Hone Claws, Iron Defense, Stalwart, Sturdy (If you would be brought from Max HP to 0 or below, you are instead brought to 1 HP.)
Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +6, Effect +4)
Dragon Tail - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, move the target 40ft away.
Flash Cannon - Ranged(20ft) Steel Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Electro Shot - Ranged(30ft beam) Electric Special Attack: 1/ day 5d12. Electro Shot is a two-turn move unless it is Raining. On the first turn, do nothing. On the second turn or if it is Raining, your Special Attack is raised +1 for 10 mins, then roll Electro Shot's Accuracy Check and damage.

637

Duraludon that reinforce their bodies with a wide variety Gimmighoul are mysterious Pokťmon that seem to be

of metals eventually evolve into Archaludon. Unlike their found in the strangest locations. They are most commonly

pre-evolutions, Archaludon are resistant to rust, and thus sighed in their Roaming Forms, in which they carry single

do not need to avoid water as fastidiously as Duraludon. coins on their backs. These tiny Pokťmon will flee once

Archaludon dig through the walls of caves and mountain- spotted, making them incredibly difficult to capture. Ac-

sides in search of minerals. Their sturdy bodies can easily cording to folklore, Roaming Form Gimmighoul are born

shrug off falling rock, so they tend to be quite reckless as from coins infused with intense greed, and wander about

they smash through caverns. Despite their formidable

in search of their chests. Chest Form Gimmighoul make

physical strength, their main method of defense is actually their homes in abandoned warehouses and antique shops

their ability to fire powerful energy beams. Though Archalu- where they blend in easily. They are so slow that they are

don cannot generate electricity on their own, they can gath- almost immobile, so they cannot collect coins themselves.

er static electricity from the surrounding air and store it in Instead, they compel nearby Pokťmon to search for and

the yellow terminals at various points on their bodies. To bring back coins to them. Because they inhabit abandoned

attack, they get down on all fours such that their terminals areas and ruins, they are rarely discovered. Both forms will

are aligned with one another. As they unleash their devas- steal the life force of anyone who tries to steal their treas-

tating beams, bright lines of energy surge through the air ures. It is said that it may take a Gimmighoul collect coins

between their terminals, making them resembling a sus- obsessively to evolve, though it could take hundreds of

pension bridge. Once they drain their terminals, Archalu- years to collect enough to do so on its own.

don must wait until they are recharged before firing again.

638

Gimmighoul / Gholdengo 

Gimmighoul (Chest)

Ghost - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 1 (5 ft.) Attack: 3

Special Attack: 8

Gimmighoul (Roaming)

Ghost - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 3 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 3

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Collector (Gimmighoul can change into its Roaming form by abandoning its chest of gold pieces. If Gimmighoul has at least 50 gold pieces, it can change back into its Chest form.), Sinker [Chest] (can't swim), Swimmer [Roaming] (can swim)
Passives: Rattled (When a foe hits you with a Bug-type, Ghost-type, or Dark-type attack, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins. This can stack.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +4, Effect +0/+4)

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Gholdengo undergo a miraculous transformation in which their bodies appear to fuse with the coins they have collected. Close inspection reveals that the coins are stacked and melded together in long tubes. As a result, Gholdengo are composed almost entirely of solid gold. When struck, they scatter coins from the point of impact to lessen the blow. In contrast to the furtive Gimmighoul, Gholdengo are very friendly Pokťmon that can get along with all types of personalities. Some say that this is because they have finally achieved satisfaction in life due to achieving their goals. They can manipulate their coins to form objects; most frequently, they use them like surfboards to glide about. In combat, Gholdengo can also blast foes with torrents of golden coins from anywhere on their bodies. After these attacks, Gholdengo will leave some of their coins scattered about. While they can be picked up, it is said that when these coins are collected by a person with intense greed, they will in fact turn into new Gimmighoul.

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 1000 Days, Diet - Aurumvore, Habitat - Ruins

Evolution: Gimmighoul

Gholdengo

Splash - Melee Normal Effect: At-Will. Instead of making an Accuracy Check, roll 1d20. On 18 or higher, all adjacent foes are moved 5 ft away from the user.
Astonish - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Gholdengo

Steel / Ghost - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 14

Skills: -

Passives: Metal Sound (+1 Special Attack), Rattled, Good as Gold (You are immune to Effect moves).

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +7, Effect +4)
Confuse Ray - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target becomes Confused.
Shadow Ball - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Proficiencies: Electric (Gholdengo) / Ghost / Steel (Gholdengo)

Make it Rain - Ranged(10ft burst) Steel Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. After use, your Special Attack is -4 for 10 mins.

639

Meowth (Cold Climate) / Perrserker 

Meowth (Cold Climate)

Steel - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Stealth (can make stealth skill checks)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Tough Claws (Your slashing attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Fake Out - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 2d6. Fake Out has Priority. Fake Out can only be used as your first action during an encounter. On hit, the target is Stunned.
Fury Swipes - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Fury Swipes has -2 during Accuracy Check. Fury Swipes is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Metal Claw - Melee Steel Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.

Perrserker

Steel - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Stealth

These Meowth were likely originally bred to simply have thicker coats to help them withstand frigid temperatures. However, they also developed sharper claws and sturdier bodies which both were desirable for battle. These Meowth possess both iron fur and claws. These Meowth sport hard black coins that they are very proud of; individuals with harder coins are held in higher regard by other Meowth, and harder coins also tend to be darker in appearance.

Passives: Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Metal Sound (+1 Special Attack), Tail Whip, Battle Armor (Critical hits are treated as normal hits against you.), Steely Spirit (Steel-type attacks used within 10ft of you by yourself or allies deal +4 damage.), Tough Claws
Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Forests / Urban

Evolution: Meowth

Perrserker

Proficiencies: Steel / Elemental Attack E / Slashing / Tricky

Iron Head - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Thrash - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. Thrash is a two -turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.

Evolution Shift compatible with Meowth (Tropical) family (155), Meowth family (474)
640

Perrserker have helmets of hardened fur and iron-hard beards that protect them from attacks. Their sharp claws can join together to form vicious daggers they use to claw at foes. Perrserker are infamous for their ruthlessness;

Onix spend most of their time burrowing through the earth, twisting and turning their massive bodies as they dig. They constantly eat while burrowing, consuming boulders, dirt, and whatever else they come across. These tunnels

they seem to relish taking down defenseless foes in com- often later become homes and pathways for other subter-

bat. In the heat of battle, Perrserker enter trance-like states ranean Pokťmon. Their roars can cause rumblings above

where they are numb to pain, mercy, and sometimes even that can be mistaken for earthquakes. Onix can regrow

the orders of their trainers. In the wild, their horns are used parts of their bodies if damaged, taking anywhere from a

to test their strength against other Perrserker. Crashing

few days to a few weeks depending on the severity of their

helmets will make loud scratching clangs that are occasion- wounds. They also can rotate any of their rocky segments,

ally heard in the wild.

including their heads. Their heads also contain magnetic

components that function like compasses, ensuring that

they never get lost while burrowing underground. As they

dig, the great pressure of the earth and the roughness of

the substrate they burrow in can smoothen and slowly

compress parts of their bodies into a black, diamond-like

material--onyx.

641

Onix / Steelix 

Onix

Rock / Ground - Gigantic (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 16 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Burrow (moves through earth easily)
Passives: Rock Polish (+2 Speed), Rototiller (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack), Screech (+2 Attack), Sturdy (If you would be brought from Max HP to 0 or below, you are instead brought to 1 HP.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)

Stealth Rock - Ranged(5ft) Rock Effect: 3/day. Place a Stealth Rock Hazard adjacent to you. Stealth Rock Hazard has the following ability: If a foe moves within 20 ft of Stealth Rock Hazard, it will hurl itself at the foe, destroying itself and dealing 2d12 Rock-type damage to the foe without needing an Accuracy Check. This Hazard disappears after 2 mins.

Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Slam has -2 during Accuracy Check.
Smack Down - Ranged(25ft) Rock Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, Smack Down knocks the target out of the air, removing any Ground-type immunities and disabling the target's ability to move in the air for 2 mins.

Steelix

Steel / Ground - Gigantic (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 20 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 7

Steelix have been recorded to dig out trails nearly half a mile underground. The immense pressure of the earth above at this level can crush most living organisms. However, their bodies are harder than diamond, compressed by the extreme pressure of their habitats. In the wild, age has little to do with their evolutions; Onix evolve into Steelix as they eat through rock and absorb the iron within. Combined with intense pressure, their bodies eventually turn dense and metallic. Their eyes are adapted to see in the dark, and their strong jaws can crunch through even the hardest boulders. Their bodies are speckled with thousands of tiny, reflective particles from the minerals they eat. These particles sparkle beautifully in the sun.

Skills: Burrow, Hover (can hover)
Passives: Autotomize (+2 Speed), Rototiller, Screech, Rock Head (Your attacks that damage yourself on hit do not damage yourself.), Sheer Force (Your attacks that have additional effects that affect the target may deal +4 damage, but will not have those additional effects.), Sturdy
Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 13 Days, Diet - Terravore, Habitat - Caves / Mountains

Evolution: Onix

Steelix

Proficiencies: Ground / Rock / Steel (Steelix) / Draconian / Fangs / Magnetism

Dragon Breath - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: AtWill 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Iron Tail - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. Iron Tail has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Stone Edge - Ranged(25ft) Rock Attack: 1/day 5d12. Stone Edge has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Stone Edge is a critical hit.

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2.

642

Varoom / Revavroom 

Varoom

Steel / Poison - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Hover (can hover)

Passives: Overcoat (You are immune to damage from weather.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +1, Effect +2)
Taunt - Ranged(20ft) Dark Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target may only use attacks that target you or your allies for 1 min.
Lick - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d8. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Smog - Ranged(5ft) Poison Special Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you got 13 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

Revavroom

Steel / Poison - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 7

Varoom are curious Pokťmon, thought to be amorphous Poison-type Pokťmon inhabiting the abandoned engines scattered across scrapyards and factories. Their entire bodies are made of steel, though they are rarely seen in this barren state. Varoom absorb minerals from stone and metal, and as such will attach themselves to rocks to feed. While they can be seen clinging onto boulders, they more commonly latch onto small stones that they can carry around as portable fuel to use while traveling. In urban areas, Varoom are also known to cling onto automobiles; since they can corrode metal and damage paint, they are often considered a pest, though in some subcultures they are instead trained to enhance the vehicle's capabilities. Naturally, these engine-like Pokťmon are very fast; they seem to enjoy racing people and Pokťmon in the wild, and quickly grow fond of those that can give them a challenge.

Speed: 13 (65 ft.) Attack: 15 Special Attack: 5
Skills: Hover
Passives: Autotomize (+2 Speed), Screech (+2 Attack), Shift Gear (+1 Attack, +2 Speed), Filter (Super-effective attacks against you deal ≠4 damage after applying weakness.), Overcoat
Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +2, Effect +6)
Poison Jab - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.
Swagger - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.
Spin Out - Ranged(10ft burst) Steel Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, your Speed is -2 for 10 mins.

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 13 Days, Diet - Terravore, Habitat - Desert / Mountains / Ruins

Evolution: Varoom

Revavroom

Proficiencies: Fire (Attacks) (Revavroom) / Poison / Steel / Tricky

643

Klefki 

Steel / Fairy - Tiny (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Flight (can fly)

Passives: Metal Sound (+1 Special Attack), Magician (When hitting with a melee attack, you steal the target's held item, if any.), Prankster (Your attacks that do not deal damage on hit have Priority.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +4)

Revavroom attach themselves to stone and metal ore, siphoning minerals to synthesize potent gases. They store this gas in their eight cylinders as fuel and burn it to

Astonish - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

generate energy. They can consume large quantities of gas Draining Kiss - Melee Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On

at once to achieve huge bursts of speed and power, though hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

if they do so too many times in succession, they have to rest and recharge for quite a while. These bursts also are very loud. Revavroom use this sound as both a warning and as a challenge. The byproducts produced by these reactions are toxic, and Revavroom can spray it at attackers

Crafty Shield - Ranged(20ft burst) Fairy Effect: 3/day. Put a Crafty Coat on all allies and yourself. The Coat has the following ability: You cannot become afflicted or have any stats altered by enemies. This Coat lasts for 2 rounds.

by sticking out their tongues. Revavroom are very popular

amongst automobile enthusiasts because of their ability to attach to vehicles and enhance their capabilities. Trained

Biology: Egg Group - Mineral / Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Terravore, Habitat - Urban Abandoned

Revavroom can even take advantage of features built into

the automobiles themselves to enhance their own attacks, Proficiencies: Fairy / Steel / Weird

though such equipment is prohibited in official trainer

battles. Still, Revavroom race-battles remain a popular

event in many regions.

Klefki used to live primarily in mines before humans developed metalworking. These Pokťmon spend their lives simply collecting keys; no one knows what purpose this serves them as a species. Regardless, Klefki will float around human settlements in search of keys. When they find abandoned ones they like, they will unhook their loops and add them to their collections before resealing their loops again. They will protect their keys with their lives, only releasing them to trusted allies and trainers. For this reason, some businesses train Klefki to protect valuable keys to safes and vaults. These Pokťmon jingle their keys as a warning signal to foes, though this technique seems to be rather ineffective at warding off aggressors. Generally, when keys suddenly go missing, they were likely stolen by Klefki; they seem to very much prefer master copies, settling for lesser versions only if they are the only ones around.
644

Mawile 

Steel / Fairy - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 6

Skills: -

Passives: Intimidate (+1 Defense), Hyper Cutter (Your Attack cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.), Sheer Force (Your attacks that have additional effects that affect the target may deal +4 damage, but will not have those additional effects.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Mawile approach foes facing forwards, luring them closer with coy and innocent expressions. Once they come too close, Mawile quickly lash around and attack with their

Taunt - Ranged(20ft) Dark Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target may only use attacks that target you or your allies for 1 min.

enormous secondary jaws. These jaws are modified steel Iron Head - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you

horns and are not connected to their digestive systems;

got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

rather, the iron-hard appendages, which are strong enough Play Rough - Melee Fairy Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the to chew through metal, simply incapacitate foes for Mawile target's Attack is -1 for 10 mins. to consume afterwards with their primary mouths. These

horns also enable Mawile to consume some prey considered unpalatable to other predators, crushing them to tasteless mush before eating. In addition to eating organic

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Carnivore / Terravore, Habitat - Caves

material, Mawile must supplement their meals with iron and other minerals to maintain their hind jaws. They will use these steel mouths to pulverize rocks into powder to

Proficiencies: Dark / Fairy / Rock / Steel / Elemental Attack FI / Fangs / Glutton / Punches

digest them more easily.

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 645

Orthworm 

Steel - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 17 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Burrow (moves through earth easily)

Passives: Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Earth Eater (When you are hit by a Ground-type attack, halve the damage, then you heal that much HP instead of taking damage.), Sand Veil (While in Sandstorming Weather, any foe's attacks made against you have -1 during accuracy check and you don't take damage from Sandstorming weather.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)
Dig - Melee Ground Attack: 3/day 3d10. Dig is a two-turn move. On the first turn, burrow up to 40 ft straight down. On the second turn, burrow up to your movement speed +40 ft, then you can roll Dig's Accuracy Check and damage.
Iron Tail - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. Iron Tail has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Sandstorm - Rock Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Sandstorming Weather with a 60ft diameter. Anyone who acts within the Sandstorming weather takes 2d4 damage after acting unless they are Rock-type, Ground-type, or Steel-type. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

Orthworm dwell in dry environments with soil rich in iron. They burrow through both loose dirt as well as solid stone, consuming the material in order to extract iron. They have to consume massive amounts of dirt in order to obtain enough iron to satiate themselves, so even a single Orthworm can tunnel through an entire acre in a matter of days. Because their activity breaks up hard soil, and because they excrete everything they don't consume, Orthworm actually leave areas much more arable than when they arrived--with a notable complete lack of iron, of course. By supplementing this metal after Orthworm leave an area, farmers are able to grow drought-tolerant plants in once-barren areas. Bizarrely, Orthworm have actually evolved a series of arm-like tendrils that they normally keep tucked within their bodies while digging. When threatened, however, they will reveal these tendrils to beat opponents into submission.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Mineral, Egg Hatch Rate - 20 Days, Diet - Terravore, Habitat - Caves / Deserts / Mountains
Proficiencies: Ground / Rock / Steel

646

Skarmory 

Steel / Flying - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 14 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Flight (can fly)
Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Leer (+1 Attack), Keen Eye (Your accuracy checks cannot be negatively affected by foes.), Sturdy (If you would be brought from Max HP to 0 or below, you are instead brought to 1 HP.), Weak Armor (When you are hit by a melee attack, your Defense is -3 and your Speed is +3 for 10 mins.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)
Spikes - Ranged(20ft burst) Ground Effect: 3/day. Place the Spikes Hazard in the area surrounding you. Spikes Hazard has the following ability: When a foe moves through Spikes Hazard during their turn and are on the ground, they lose 1/6th of their Max HP. This Hazard disappears after 2 mins.

Skarmory make their nests in bramble bushes. Though born with soft skin, they quickly callous and harden through the constant scratching of their prickly nests. Their wings and bones are hollow, allowing them to fly. They are also razor-sharp; in the past, warriors used to brandish their fallen feathers as swords and knives. Even today, some chefs utilize artisanal knives sharpened from Skarmory feathers. These feathers grow back annually, replacing old ones bruised and battered from battle. Skarmory are highly aggressive and territorial, engaging in vicious battles over disputed land. They will rip off wings and feathers from foes with their sharp beaks or talons to send them plummeting to the ground. Skarmory are known to kidnap small, defenseless Pokťmon from their trainers or parents in hopes of luring larger prey seeking to retrieve them back to their nests. They have even been observed tearing off the limbs of weaker creatures or chasing them off cliffs simply for fun. Because their water can rust their wings, Skarmory seek shelter in brambles during the rain.

Steel Wing - Melee Steel Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Air Slash - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. Air Slash has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Biology: Egg Group - Flying, Egg Hatch Rate - 13 Days, Diet Carnivore, Habitat - Badlands / Mountains
Proficiencies: Flying / Steel / Avian / Prickly / Winged

647

Azurill / Marill / Azumarill 

Azurill

Normal / Fairy - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 2

Special Attack: 2

Skills: Fountain (can create water)

Passives: Charm (+1 Defense), Thick Fat (You take -4 damage from Fire-type attacks and Ice-type attacks.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +1, Effect +1)
Splash - Melee Normal Effect: At-Will. Instead of making an Accuracy Check, roll 1d20. On 18 or higher, all adjacent foes are moved 5 ft away from the user.
Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Water Sport - Melee Water Effect: At-Will. Put a Water Coat on the target or yourself. The Coat has the following ability: Reduce damage from Fire attacks that hit you by 10. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

Marill

Water / Fairy - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 2

Skills: Fountain, Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Charm, Huge Power (+6 Attack), Thick Fat

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +1, Effect +2)

Rollout - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Rollout against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Rollout's damage.
Bubble Beam - Ranged(20ft beam) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Helping Hand - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. Target ally's next attack during this round will deal +1d20 damage.

Azurill use their tails as their main method of travel. Their tails are very rubbery; Azurill will sit on them and bounce from place to place. Alternatively, they may swing them around like lassos and toss them, pulling the rest of their bodies along with them. Their tails are packed with the nutrients they need to grow and also store the fat they obtain from food. A side effect of this is that their tails are very buoyant. This is helpful for Azurill, who are not very good swimmers, but enjoy playing in shallow water. On sunny days, groups of them can be seen splashing about at the water's edge. When threatened, they can swing their tails at opponents, buying time to escape. They are prone to crying and will wail when frightened or hungry. When one Azurill in a group cries, the rest will follow suit, even if they don't know why the initial Azurill was even crying in the first place. They feed primarily on algae, but will supplement their diets with tiny Water-types from time to time.

648

Marill can be found swimming in various bodies of freshwater as also well as frolicking on lakeshores and riversides. Their spherical tails contain an oil that is less dense than water. They act as buoys when Marill swim, helping them stay afloat even in the roughest currents. The amount of oil in their tails can be regulated to allow the Pokťmon to swim at varying depths. Marill feed on algae and tiny Water -types at the bottoms of their habitats. Their tails can be seen floating above the surface in shallower bodies of water. Their fur is water-repellant, allowing them to swim with little resistance and therefore with high speed. Their tails are very flexible and stretchy, and their buoys can contract and expand at will. When fishing, these Pokťmon will wrap their tails tightly around nearby trees and leap into the rushing rapids of rivers. After nabbing prey, Marill will pull themselves back onto land with their springy tails. Their ears are highly developed and can pick up minute sounds both above and below the surface of the water.

Azumarill

Water/Fairy - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Fountain, Swimmer

Passives: Charm, Huge Power, Sap Sipper (You are immune to Grass-type attacks. If you would be hit by a Grasstype attack, your Attack is +2 for 10 mins.), Thick Fat

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Aqua Tail - Melee Water Attack: 1/day 3d12.

Azumarill have highly sensitive ears, able to discern sounds both on land and underwater. They can single out

Play Rough - Melee Fairy Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

sources of noise while blocking out all other sounds- even Aqua Ring - Self Water Effect: 1/day. Put a Ring Coat on

that of rushing rivers. They can stay submerged for long

yourself. The Coat has the following ability: At the begin-

periods of time, from 12 to 16 hours, as they can hold large ning of your turn, recover 1d10 HP. This Coat lasts for 1

volumes of air within their bodies. When Azumarill dive,

min. If it's raining, the Coat lasts for 2 mins.

they roll up their long ears to prevent water from getting

into them. The bubble patterns on their bellies helps them

camouflage while swimming; from above, they blend in

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Fairy, Egg Hatch Rate - 4

with the water, while from below, they disappear into the Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Lakes / Ponds / Rivers

foam. Azumarill can form durable air bubbles underwater Evolution: Azurill when they spot drowning Pokťmon, they will surround

Marill

Azumarill

them with one of these bubbles to supply them with air as Proficiencies: Fairy / Water

the Pokťmon rise to the surface. If they are unable to swim,

/ Elemental Attack I (Marill / Azumarill)

Azumarill will haul them back to shore in order to ensure

/ Cutesy / Bruiser (Azumarill)

their safety.

649

Horsea / Seadra / Kingdra 

Horsea

Water - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 18 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Swift Swim (While in Raining weather or in water, your Speed is +2.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Bubble - Ranged(15ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Smoke Screen - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. Place up to 25 contiguous ft of Smoke Screen Wall. Smoke Screen Wall has no thickness, is 12 ft tall and has the following ability: Attacks that target through or within the wall have -2 during Accuracy Check. This Wall disappears after 2 mins.
Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Seadra

Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Fountain, Flopper, Gilled, Swimmer
Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Leer, Poison Point (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Poison the attacker.), Sniper (When you land a critical hit, you deal an additional 8 damage.)

Horsea nest in reefs, using their tails to grip onto rocks or growth in strong currents to prevent themselves from being washed away. They also use their tails to balance themselves while swimming. They can use their dorsal fins to swim in any direction while facing forwards, making them well adapted to. Horsea eat Bug-types and moss above the surface of the water. They locate targets and then shoots precise blobs of ink at them, knocking them below. When threatened, Horsea can also instinctively shoot ink into the water, turning it murky and buying themselves time to escape. They are playful Pokťmon, oftentimes seen tangling their tails together as they swim about reefs and occasionally ocean caverns as well. They may also shoot ink at or race each other through the water for fun.

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)

Twister - Ranged(15ft) Dragon Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Bubble Beam - Ranged(20ft beam) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Brine - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target is at less than half of their Max HP, Brine has 5d8 for damage instead.

650

Seadra are often found in reefs and underwater caves. They hook their tail onto rocks or branches to rest, preventing them from being swept away. Seadra can also use their fins and tails to swim backwards. When Seadra lay eggs, they are fiercely protective of them. They will attack anyone who comes too close with streams of water or underwater vortexes. When hunting, Seadra create walls of bubbles to trap and disorient prey. They swallow food whole using their long snouts. Their fins are very sharp and can leak a poison that paralyzes muscles. Many divers unwittingly are stabbed by Seadra while examining reefs nearby.

Kingdra

Water / Dragon - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)
Hit Points: 48 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 10
Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 10
Skills: Fountain, Gilled, Swimmer
Passives: Agility, Focus Energy, Leer, Damp (Chloroblast, Explosion, Misty Explosion, and Self-Destruct fail to do anything if used within 40ft of you.), Sniper, Swift Swim

Kingdra live near the sea floor away from most other Pokťmon, hiding in caves or blending into reefs. They spend much of their time resting, and as such do not expend much energy. Kingdra have been known to create whirlpools when they yawn by quickly sucking in large amounts of water from beneath the ocean's surface, they can generate small vortexes that pull down food for them to consume. Kingdra become particularly active during and after storms, awakening in search of prey displaced by rough waters. Kingdra capitalize on these times, as Pokťmon frantically swimming in search of shelter are more likely to get caught by their vortexes. After satisfying meals, Kingdra become dormant for up to months at a time; they only need to eat a few times a year, thanks to their rather inactive lifestyles; they sleep the rest of the time.

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)
Draco Meteor - Ranged(20ft, 10ft blast) Dragon Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. After use, your Special Attack is -4 for 10 mins.
Dragon Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.
Hydro Pump - Ranged(30ft beam) Water Special Attack: 1/ day 5d12. Hydro Pump has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Raining.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Caves / Ocean Reefs

Evolution: Horsea

Seadra Kingdra

Proficiencies: Dragon (Seadra / Kingdra) / Water / Elemental Attack I

651

Lotad / Lombre / Ludicolo 

Lotad

Water / Grass - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 3

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Swift Swim (While in Raining weather or in water, your Speed is +2.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)
Astonish - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Bubble - Ranged(15ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Lombre

Water / Grass - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Fountain, Swimmer

Passives: Growl, Rain Dish (If in Raining Weather, you regain 4 HP after you act.), Swift Swim

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Razor Leaf - Ranged(25ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Razor Leaf is a critical hit.
Fury Swipes - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Fury Swipes has -2 during Accuracy Check. Fury Swipes is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Fake Out - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 2d6. Fake Out has Priority. Fake Out can only be used as your first action during an encounter. On hit, the target is Stunned.

Lotad are amphibious Pokťmon, but they spend virtually all of their time in the water. They primarily photosynthesize for energy, though they also feed on aquatic weeds from time to time as well. Because of their reliance on photosynthesis, studies have shown that the leaves on their heads have been growing steadily larger in surface area with every passing generation; many hypothesize that the reason why Lotad rarely exercise their terrestrial abilities is because these leaves have become too heavy for efficient land travel. Despite this, Lotad will occasionally leave the water to search for new ponds if their original ones become polluted; they must drink clean water routinely to prevent their pads from wilting. Lotad camouflage themselves underwater, leaving only their leaves exposed to blend in with lily pads. These leaves are buoyant enough to suspend them perfectly in this fashion. Lotad are docile and easygoing Pokťmon. They are known to carry smaller Pokťmon that can't swim over bodies of water, ferrying them over on their broad pads.

652

Lombre are nocturnal Pokťmon, becoming active late in the evening. Their favorite pastime is playing tricks on unwary fishermen. Lombre will sometimes pop out of the water suddenly to startle nearby people and Pokťmon, or may tug on submerged fishing lines to confuse anglers. Their skin is coated with a slippery, slimy mucus to keep them moist outside of the water. Touching their skin causes what is described as a "horribly unpleasant" sensation. Lombre spend most of the day near the water's edge, sleeping on beds of reeds. They feed on aquatic moss growing on underwater rocks and also catch and eat some Watertypes.

Ludicolo

Water / Grass - Large (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 48 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Fountain, Swimmer

Passives: Growl, Own Tempo (You are immune to being Confused), Rain Dish, Swift Swim

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)

Ludicolo are very carefree, jolly Pokťmon. Upon hearing a festive melody, they will begin to dance rhythmically, not stopping until the music ceases. Watching them do this can uplift the spirits of all who see them and encourage them to dance as well. When Ludicolo dance, their cells work much harder than they normally do, producing more energy and making them stronger. When there isn't music, Ludicolo will seek to create their own rhythms, employing a variety of materials found in their habitats. Tools ranging from stone "drums" to reed pipes have been found near ponds where Ludicolo dwell. In battle, they will play these instruments and dance to the melodies produced in order to power up their attacks. Oftentimes, the sight of dancing Ludicolo is enough to placate aggressors, who may even begin dancing as well.

Rain Dance - Water Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Raining Weather with a 60ft diameter. Within the Raining weather, Water-type attacks deal an additional 8 damage and Fire-type attacks deal 8 less damage. This weather disappears after 2 mins.
Zen Headbutt - Melee Psychic Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Uproar - Ranged(20ft burst) Normal Special Attack: 1/day 3d10. Uproar is a three-turn move. On each of its turns, you can move normally, then roll Uproar's accuracy check and damage. Sleeping Pokťmon within range of Uproar are awoken and Pokťmon cannot go to Sleep within Uproar's range.
Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Grass, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet - Herbivore / Phototroph, Habitat - Ponds

Evolution: Lotad

Lombre Water Stone Ludicolo

Proficiencies: Grass / Water / Elemental Attack I / Punches (Lombre / Ludicolo)

653

Tympole / Palpitoad / Seismitoad 

Tympole

Water - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Hydration (While in Raining weather, you are cured of any afflictions.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)

Bubble - Ranged(15ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Supersonic - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. Supersonic has -8 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.

Round - Ranged(15ft burst) Normal Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. For every time anyone has used Round before you during this round of combat, Round deals +1d10 damage.

Palpitoad

Water / Ground - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Fountain, Gilled, Swimmer
Passives: Growl, Hydration, Swift Swim (While in Raining weather or in water, your Speed is +2.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)
Bubble Beam - Ranged(20ft beam) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Tympole live in large groups known as "circles." The growths on either side of their heads can vibrate quickly in order to produce ultrasonic waves. These waves, though imperceptible to humans, are how Tympole communicate with one another. When threatened, a Tympole will emit a distinctive pattern and frequency of sound that only other Tympole can hear; once the rest of the circle hears the warning, they will all begin to produce the same sound. The circle will then, as a group, adjust the frequency of the sound waves they are emitting until they become audible at an earsplitting pitch to attackers. Curiously if a single Tympole is isolated and put under stress, it will emit an initial warning sound as usual, but will not attempt to stun the opponent with a subsequent deafening pitch, instead only holding the first note. This seems to indicate that Tympole will not attack until their warning calls are confirmed by allies, which occurs when other Tympole replicate the starting pitch. Resonating ripples on the surface of a pond are a sure sign of a Tympole circle singing below.

Mud Shot - Ranged(10ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Aqua Ring - Self Water Effect: 1/day. Put a Ring Coat on yourself. The Coat has the following ability: At the beginning of your turn, recover 1d10 HP. This Coat lasts for 1 min. If it's raining, the Coat lasts for 2 mins.

654

Palpitoad live in groups of anywhere from six to twelve members. They are amphibious Pokťmon, capable of dwelling both on dry land and in fresh water. They cannot stray far from the water's edge, however, as they must keep their skin moist in order to breathe. Because they lack arms, Palpitoad rely primarily on their tails for balance. They use their long, sticky tongues to catch flying bug-types in midair; their saliva contains a substance that traps small prey on contact. By vibrating the bumps around their bodies, they can create small tremors on land or ripples in water; this helps scare out prey for them to catch. Palpitoad with larger bumps can produce a greater range of pitches, thus giving them an advantage in song composition.

Seismitoad

Water / Ground - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 66 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Fountain, Gilled, Swimmer

Seismitoad are solitary Pokťmon; they are generally not very territorial or aggressive, however. This is because they rarely need to actively defend themselves from foes, as most are wise enough to avoid angering them. By vibrating the circular growths around their bodies, Seismitoad can create tremors while on land and large waves while in the water. Additionally, by vibrating the bumps on their hands, they can deliver powerful punches that send shockwaves through the bodies of foes. Such attacks have the ability to pulverize boulders. Even when idle, Seismitoad generate minute, barely-palpable vibrations beneath them that can cause dizziness and nausea in those nearby. The bumps on their heads can also shoot out a paralyzing substance. Because their bodies are also coated in a thin layer of the same substance, touching Seismitoad skin can also induce a similar effect.

Passives: Growl, Hydration, Poison Touch (Whenever you hit with a melee attack, you may roll 1d6. On 6, Poison the target.), Swift Swim, Water Absorb (When you are hit by a water-type attack, halve the damage, then you heal that much HP instead of taking damage.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)
Acid Spray - Ranged(20ft) Poison Special Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Muddy Water - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Water Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, any target's Accuracy Checks are -2 during their next turn.
Hyper Voice - Ranged(30ft beam) Normal Special Attack: 1/ day 3d12.
Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Ponds / Wetlands

Evolution: Tympole Palpitoad

Seismitoad

Proficiencies: Ground / Water / Sound / Stampeding (Seismitoad)

655

Poliwag / Poliwhirl / Poliwrath 
/ Politoed

Poliwag

Water - Small (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Damp (Chloroblast, Explosion, Misty Explosion, and Self-Destruct fail to do anything if used within 40ft of you.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)

Hypnosis - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Effect: 3/day. Hypnosis has -4 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is put Asleep.

Bubble - Ranged(15ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Double Slap - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Double Slap has -2 during Accuracy Check. Double Slap is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Poliwhirl

Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Fountain, Gilled, Swimmer

Passives: Damp, Water Absorb (When you are hit by a water-type attack, halve the damage, then you heal that much HP instead of taking damage.)

Poliwag are amphibious Pokťmon, capable of life both on land and in water. However, they are much better at swimming in the water with their tails than walking on dry land with their feet; terrestrially, they are very clumsy, often falling and rolling around helplessly. Still, they try to venture onto land in order to strengthen their legs, though they will flee into the water at the first sign of danger. Their skin is so thin that light can pass through it, rendering it transparent. Their skin must be kept moist at all times--when not in the water, they are in constant danger of drying out. As a result, they rarely stray too far from the water's edge. Their thin skin also leaves Poliwag particularly vulnerable to water pollution, which they can easily absorb. Their swirls will pale when they are ill. However, this skin is also very flexible and slippery, bouncing off the fangs and claws of attackers. Poliwag primarily feed on algae and lily pad roots. They are skittish Pokťmon that hide from foes amongst aquatic plants.

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)
Body Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed. Body Slam can Paralyze Electric-types.
Bubble Beam - Ranged(20ft beam) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Mud Shot - Ranged(10ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

656

Poliwhirl are amphibious, but still prefer to remain in the water, where they have fewer predators. Poliwhirl must constantly keep their skin moist. When out of water, they achieve this by sweating a slippery, oily fluid all over their bodies. This substance has the added effect of making Poliwhirl difficult to hold on to in battle, as they can easily slip and slide out of the grasps of opponents. By undulating the spirals on their bellies, Poliwhirl can perform illusions to lull opponents to sleep. This buys ample time for them to escape. Their hands are also developed enough to perform a variety of palm-based moves. Both Poliwhirl and Poliwag are mesmerized and drawn to the cries of Politoed, and will cease whatever they are doing to locate and congregate around the source of such noises

Poliwrath

Water / Fighting - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Fountain, Gilled, Swimmer

Passives: Damp, Swift Swim (While in Raining weather or in water, your Speed is +2.), Water Absorb

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Submission - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.

Dynamic Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. Dynamic Punch has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.

Mind Reader - Ranged(40ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. Mind Reader can't miss. Your next attack against the same target will not miss.

Politoed

Poliwrath are uncommon in the wild and can rarely be found in moist areas as Poliwrath must always keep their skin wet, including damp caverns. When dry, they will begin to sweat profusely in order to stay moist. Poliwrath prefer land over water. They are still very strong swimmers, however. Poliwrath can even briefly run across surfaces of water for moments using their strong arms and legs; their bodies are nearly all muscle and no fat. They can swim using similar strokes that humans use, like the butterfly and breaststroke. Different populations seem to have different preferences, though they enjoy teaching others their style. Their muscles are conditioned so that they do not get tired, letting them walk or swim nearly indefinitely. Poliwrath are also more confrontational than Poliwhirl in that they will not shy away from conflicts, though they are by no means aggressive.
Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet -Omnivore, Habitat - Caves / Ponds / Lakes
Evolution: Poliwag Poliwhirl Water Stone Poliwrath,

Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Fountain, Gilled, Swimmer

Passives: Damp, Drizzle (As a free action you may deplete one use of Rain Dance and use Rain Dance.), Water Absorb

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)

Swagger - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.

Bounce - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Bounce is a twoturn move. On the first turn, raise yourself 40 ft into the air. On the second turn, return to the ground, move up to twice your movement rate, then you may roll Bounce's Accuracy Check and damage. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Hyper Voice - Ranged(30ft beam) Normal Special Attack: 1/ day 3d12.

Dawn Stone Politoed
Proficiencies: Fighting (Poliwhirl / Poliwrath / Politoed) / Water / Elemental Attack I / Punches (Poliwrath) / Sound (Politoed)

657

Politoed are jovial Pokťmon, often seen clapping and

Arrokuda are a hardy species that can tolerate both

hopping around ponds. They congregate in triplets or

fresh and salt water. Though they seem to prefer the sea,

quartets and sing together; their harsh croaking sounds sizable populations can be found in fast-moving rivers and

like rumbling bellows or even screaming when they do so. large lakes as well. Arrokuda are notable for their odd

Lone Politoed are often the heads of local communities of hunting strategy; rather than biting prey with their teeth,

Poliwag and Poliwhirl, commanding them sternly with

they instead prefer to skewer them with their closed jaws.

their croaks. The curls on their heads are symbols of dom- Arrokuda will lie in wait until they sense movement before

inance. When their positions are challenged by intruding rushing towards the first sign of prey, hoping to impale

or recently-evolved Politoed, the ones with larger curls

them on their sharp jaws. Arrokuda are very proud of the

ultimately become the leaders. Politoed with short curls or sharpness of these structures and will show them off to

curls lost in battle have been observed to command little other Arrokuda to assert dominance. These Pokťmon are

to no respect from their peers; their bellows will simply be not the brightest and commonly cause issues for boats

ignored. Politoed are equally adept in the water as they when they accidentally pierce holes into their hulls and

are on land. Because of their porous skin, they must re- get stuck. Anglers will wave wooden planks through the

turn into the water at least once every 24 hours in order water to entice Arrokuda to skewer themselves onto

to rehydrate themselves. When choruses of least four

them, making them easy catches. After Arrokuda eat their

Politoed are observed singing together, it is said that rain- fill, their movements slow considerably, and they are con-

storms are imminent.

tent drifting along with the currents. This makes satiated

Arrokuda a prime target for hungry predators scanning

the water from above.

658

Arrokuda / Barraskewda 

Arrokuda

Water - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Swift Swim (While in Raining weather or in water, your Speed is +2.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)
Peck - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Aqua Jet - Melee Water Attack: At-Will 2d6. Aqua Jet has Priority.
Fury Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Fury Attack has -2 during Accuracy Check. Fury Attack is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Barraskewda are the bane of fishermen everywhere because of their uncanny habit of stealing hooked fish just before they are reeled in. These hunters are attracted to movement--such as that of a struggling fish--and can swiftly swim in to impale catches right off of their hooks. Barraskewda can spin their propeller-like tails to reach high underwater speeds. Their jaws are as sharp as spears, letting them pierce cleanly through prey with ease. Unlike Arrokuda, these Pokťmon rarely get themselves stuck thanks to their improved strength, and also seem to be better at distinguishing moving animate and inanimate objects than Arrokuda. Though they are solitary hunters, multiple Barraskewda attracted to the same large quarry can independently skewer the victim to bring it down; though they may fight over who gets to claim the carcass afterwards.

Barraskewda
Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 36 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5
Speed: 16 (80 ft.) Attack: 12 Special Attack: 6
Skills: Flopper, Fountain (can create water), Gilled, Swimmer
Passives: Agility, Swift Swim, Propeller Tail (Your attacks cannot be redirected by passives or any other effect (except by interception), instead only hitting a target your attack was directed at.)
Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +8)

Biology: Egg Group - Water 2, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Carnivore, Habitat - Lakes / Ocean Reefs / Ocean / Rivers

Evolution: Arrokuda

Barraskewda

Proficiencies: Water / Fangs / Piscian

Laser Focus - Ranged(30ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, your next attack against the same target will be a Critical Hit. You still need to make an Accuracy Check.
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Liquidation - Ranged(10ft) Water Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

659

Barboach / Whiscash 

Barboach

Water / Ground - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Amnesia (+2 Special Defense), Oblivious (You are immune to Infatuation.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)

Mud-Slap - Ranged(5ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 1d6. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.
Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Mud Sport - Melee Ground Effect: At-Will. Put a Mud Coat on the target or yourself. The Coat has the following ability: Reduce damage from Electric attacks that hit you by 10. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

Whiscash

Water / Ground - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 66 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Fountain, Flopper, Gilled, Swimmer

Passives: Amnesia, Hydration (While in Raining weather, you are cured of any afflictions.), Oblivious

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)
Thrash - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. Thrash is a two -turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.
Aqua Tail - Melee Water Attack: 1/day 3d12.
Muddy Water - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Water Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, any target's Accuracy Checks are -2 during their next turn.

Barboach dwell in muddy water, burying themselves in the muck. Their bodies are covered in a slippery mucus. It makes it difficult for foes to grasp them, which especially important because Barboach often live in shallow water where they can easily be spotted by aerial predators. If this film dries, they will become weak and lethargic. Barboach are usually submerged in mud, leaving only their whiskers poking out. Their whiskers are extremely sensitive, acting like radars to help them navigate murky waters. The barbs can also sense passing prey, and can detect smell and taste at the same resolution as the human tongue. Barboach are not very picky eaters and will consume nearly anything they find. They can be seen scavenging the remains of the meals of other Pokťmon or eating rotting plant material if food is scarce.
Biology: Egg Group - Water 2, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Marshes / Ponds / Rivers / Swamps
Evolution: Barboach Whiscash
Proficiencies: Ground / Water / Elemental Attack I / Piscian

660

Whiscash are highly territorial, often claiming entire

ponds as their own. They are nocturnal, burying into the mud to sleep during the day. At night, they emerge to eat whatever they can find, waiting patiently at the bottoms of their ponds; as long as it is alive, Whiscash will eat try to it, along with a healthy gulp of muck from beneath as well. They make their nests by carving out shallow bowls in mud. Whiscash have poor eyesight and instead use their highly sensitive whiskers to navigate their murky surroundings. They are so sensitive, in fact, that they can sense minute vibrations of the earth and alert Whiscash of earthquakes before they even occur. Due to their territoriality, they become very hostile when foes enter their land. When threatened, they will go berserk and thrash about wildly to generate quakes nearby. They will also generate smaller tremors to scare out potential prey from the silt.

Basculin appear in three different variants, one with red stripes across their bodies, another with blue stripes, and a third exceedingly rare with white stripes. The three types have other, subtler, differences as well, such as the colors and shapes of their eyes and fins. Regardless of color, Basculin are particularly hostile Pokťmon that will attack anything foreign in their waters. Schools of Basculin are almost always made up of individuals of the same form and will viciously attack schools of the other colors with their strong jaws. Consequently, most bodies of water where Basculin dwell will have an overwhelming majority of one form, with most individuals of the opposite color having been killed off. They are also generally hostile to other species, albeit not to the same degree as to rival Basculin. Still, they usually are aggressive enough to drive

off all Pokťmon. Basculin appear to differentiate threats

from allies by color; red Basculin will attack anything blue,

while blue ones will attack anything red. Despite their

hostility, Basculin are a key food source for many

freshwater predators. They are also popular amongst

anglers for putting up a fight when fishing, leading to their

illegal introduction into numerous fishing lakes around the

world.

661

Basculin / Basculegion 

Basculin

Water - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6
Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 10 Special Attack: 8
Skills: Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Fountain (can create water), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)
Passives: Scary Face (+2 Speed), Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Adaptability (Moves that are the same type as you deal +4 damage.), Rock Head [Blue-Striped] (Your attacks that damage yourself on hit do not damage yourself.) Rattled [WhiteStriped] (When a foe hits you with a Bug-type, Ghost-type, or Dark-type attack, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins. This can stack.) Reckless [Red-Striped] (Your attacks that damage yourself on hit, deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +4, Effect +6)

Headbutt - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned. Aqua Jet - Melee Water Attack: At-Will 2d6. Aqua Jet has Priority. Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Basculegion
Water / Ghost - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight) Hit Points: 72 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 8 Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 12 Special Attack: 8 Hit Points: 72 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 8 Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 10 Special Attack: 10
Skills: Flopper, Fountain, Gilled, Swimmer

White-striped Basculin, though gentler in demeanor compared to their relatives, are no less loyal to their schools. After completing their arduous journeys upstream, survivors evolve into Basculegion. Often, these resilient few are possessed by the souls of those that did not reach their destinations. It is said that these souls can each attack as if they were forces of their own, making Basculegion unrivaled in strength. Basculegion can swim endlessly without getting tired, drawing strength from their fallen brethren. They can sense hostility in others and will attack aggressors viciously without relenting. Male Basculegion, in addition to their vibrant red coloration, also tend to rush at foes headon; females, on the other hand, possess a drabber blue pattern and prefer attacking from a distance. During mating season, males become even more vibrant as they attempt to attract mates. Ironically, outside of mating season, Basculegion tend to be solitary, as they require quite a bit of territory to thrive.

Passives: Scary Face, Tail Whip, Adaptability, Mold Breaker (Your attacks ignore any passives that would redirect, negate or weaken your attacks.), Rattled
Moves (Attack +6/5, Special Attack +4/5, Effect +5)
Zen Headbutt - Melee Psychic Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 2, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Carnivore, Habitat - Lakes / Rivers

Evolution: Basculin

White-striped only Basculegion

Proficiencies: Water/ Ghost (attacks only) (Basculegion) / Elemental Attack I / Fangs / Piscian / Stampeding

Wave Crash- Melee Water Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal. Your
Speed is +2 for 10 mins.

Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

662

Buizel / Floatzel 

Buizel

Water - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Swift Swim (While in Raining weather or in water, your Speed is +2.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)
Sonic Boom - Ranged(5ft) Normal Special Attack: At-Will 10. Do not add bonuses of any kind to this damage.
Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick Attack has Priority.
Aqua Jet - Melee Water Attack: At-Will 2d6. Aqua Jet has Priority.

Floatzel

Buizel live in fast-moving rivers. The collars around their necks are adjustable, air-filled flotation sacs. When inflated, they let Buizel rest with their heads above water, allowing them to sleep without fear of drowning. Buizel can hold their breaths for long periods of time, but must still surface to breathe. They also inflate their sacs to keep their heads afloat as they scan for prey. When Buizel dive, they deflate their sacs so they won't rise back to the surface. They swim by spinning their two tails around like propellers. This method enables them to swim very quickly and cut through weeds that would normally slow them down. Young Buizel are very playful; they can often be seen splashing together in the water. They outgrow this behavior as they age, but still remain very friendly. On land, though not as agile as they are in the water, Buizel are still relatively fast; they will sometimes venture onto shore should their sacs become damaged. They wrap their tails around reeds when sleeping to stay anchored.

Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 54 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 5
Speed: 14 (70 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 9
Skills: Fountain, Swimmer
Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Growl, Swift Swim, Water Veil (You are immune to being Burned.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +4, Effect +7)
Pursuit - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d6. Pursuit deals +6 damage to a target if they ended their turn further away from you during the start of their turn.
Razor Wind - Ranged(30ft, 10ft wave) Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Razor Wind is a two-turn move. On the first turn, do nothing. On the second turn, you may roll Razor Wind's Accuracy Check and damage. On hit, if you got 18 or more on Accuracy Check, Razor Wind is a critical hit.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Rivers

Aqua Tail - Melee Water Attack: 1/day 3d12.

Evolution: Buizel

Floatzel

Proficiencies: Water / Elemental Attack I / Fangs

663

Floatzel have highly-developed flotation sacs, letting

Carvanha swim in schools in large tropical rivers. Known

them carry more than twice their body weight while still

for their savagery, they have strong, sturdy jaws that can

remaining above the water's surface. They are often seen tear apart boat hulls with enough of them. Indeed, schools

lounging lazily down rivers, floating on their backs. Floatzel of Carvanha are famous for sinking many river-going ships

are very swift, capable of using speed-based techniques in attempting to make it to the sea. Carvanha schools mark

battle. They deflate their flotation sacs to dive and use their their territory distinctly, leaving bite marks on the stones

twin tails to propel themselves. They can move around

surrounding their swathes of rivers. They will only attack

perfectly well on land, though they prefer to be in the

ships, people, and Pokťmon that enter their territories, but

water. Floatzel are often found around fishing ports, where they are seen as both nuisances and aids. On one hand, they sometimes snatch prey straight from the hooks of anglers. On the other, they can be helpful Pokťmon, known to rescue drowning people and Pokťmon by inflating their raft-like flotation sacs and carrying them to shore on their

will do so viciously and relentlessly. Carvanha are driven into feeding frenzies upon smelling blood, recklessly attacking anything around them that movesincluding other Carvanha. It should be noted that in the unfortunate event of being caught in a Carvanha feeding frenzy, pinching their mouths shut will prevent them from biting; though they can shut their mouths with great power,

backs. Generally, most anglers leave Floatzel alone

they cannot open them with nearly as strong of a force.

because of this.

Additionally, Carvanha are only aggressive when in large

schools, particularly in groups of five or more. Lone

Carvanha are very timid and meek, swimming away from

danger rather than attacking.

664

Carvanha / Sharpedo 

Carvanha

Water / Dark - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 2 Special Defense: 2

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Scary Face (+2 Speed), Screech (+2 Attack), Rough Skin (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, the attacker takes 4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Aqua Jet - Melee Water Attack: At-Will 2d6. Aqua Jet has Priority.

Throughout the vast oceans of the world, there are no aquatic Pokťmon feared more than Sharpedo. Sharpedo are notorious for attacking boats, submarines, and even divers who dare venture into their territories. Their jaws are strong enough to rip apart metal. When their teeth fall off, new ones will sprout up almost immediately in their place. Their skin is unique in texture; rubbing in the direction of rear to mouth, it feels as rough as sandpaper and can cut skin simply by brushing past. In the opposite direction, though, it is as smooth as steel. This quality along with their hydrodynamic body shape allows them to reach high speeds underwater by jetting water through their bodies. Though they can only do this for short periods of time, it is more than enough to ram holes into boats or slam into larger prey.

Swagger - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.
Sharpedo
Water / Dark - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight) Hit Points: 42 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4 Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 14 Special Attack: 10 Skills: Fountain, Flopper, Gilled, Swimmer Passives: Focus Energy, Screech, Speed Boost (+2 Speed), Rough Skin
Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +5, Effect +6)

Biology: Egg Group - Water 2, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Carnivore, Habitat - Ocean

Evolution: Carvanha

Sharpedo

Proficiencies: Dark / Water / Elemental Attack I / Fangs / Piscian

Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.
Ice Fang - Melee Ice Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is randomly either Stunned or Frozen.
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 665

Chewtle / Drednaw 

Chewtle

Water - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Fountain (can create water)

Passives: Shell Armor (Critical hits are treated as normal hits against you.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Protect - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Protect is used as a Reaction. When you would be hit by a move, use Protect to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack.

Drednaw

Water / Rock - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Fountain

Passives: Rock Polish (+2 Speed), Shell Armor, Strong Jaw (Your biting attacks deal +4 damage.), Swift Swim (While in Raining weather or in water, your Speed is +2.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)
Head Smash - Melee Rock Attack: 1/day 7d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to half of the damage you deal. Head Smash has -2 during Accuracy Check.
Jaw Lock - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d6 rounds.
Liquidation - Ranged(10ft) Water Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Chewtle are easy to spot when they surface from the water due to their oversized heads. In fact, most of their heads are dedicated to supporting their jaw muscles, giving these Pokťmon an incredible bite strength. Chewtle are always teething, which creates an uncomfortable itching in their mouths. These Pokťmon are always seeking something to bite on in order to alleviate this. After Chewtle bite something, it takes some time for them to reset their mouths into a normal position and bite again. For this reason, they prefer to use their horns first in combat to charge at foes. It is only when they see their enemies flinch and give them an opening that Chewtle will chomp down with all of their might. Both their horns and their shells are rockhard. However, their huge heads make Chewtle unable to retreat back into their shells like some other shelled Pokťmon. Instead, these Pokťmon will choose fighting over hiding when it comes to danger, fearlessly biting those who try to harm them.

Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Water 1, Egg Hatch Rate 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Ponds / Rivers

Evolution: Chewtle

Drednaw

Proficiencies: Rock / Water / Fangs / Stampeding (Drednaw)

This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2. 666

Chinchou are most well-known for the two dangling

Drednaw are infamous for being cranky, irritable inhabitants of otherwise peaceful ponds. These Pokťmon are highly territorial, chasing down intruders as soon as they notice their approach. They give no warning signs

bulbs, their highly-developed fins, sprouting from their heads. These bulbs help them attract prey in the deep ocean, luring them in with bright light and then electrocuting them when they come too close. They constantly release large amount of both positive and

prior to attacking, either, immediately charging at potential negative charges. Chinchou who have not discharged

threats. Despite their heavy, rock-hard shells, they have

recently can be seen shuddering from their electricity. They

well-developed leg muscles that can carry them surprisingly communicate by flashing their bulbs in specific patterns.

quickly. Drednaw sport incredible jaws that can crack steel They will flash signals to other Chinchou in the area in

rods in two thanks to their jagged edges. To the surprise of order to claim their territories. These Pokťmon lives in

unfortunate victims, Drednaw have extendable necks that schools of 20-30 individuals, though numerous groups

they can launch forwards to chomp down on fleeing prey. numbering in the hundreds have been recorded in some

Between their sharp horns, terrifying jaws, and unexpected deeps. In some cases, during migrations, thousands can be

agility, Drednaw can easily turn popular swimming

seen at a time.

destinations into abandoned sites merely with their

presence.

667

Chinchou / Lanturn 

Chinchou

Water / Electric - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Glow (can produce light), Swimmer (can swim), Zapper (can produce electricity)

Passives: Volt Absorb (When you are hit by an electric-type attack, halve the damage, then you heal that much HP instead of taking damage.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)
Bubble - Ranged(15ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Thunder Wave - Ranged(20ft) Electric Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Paralyzed.
Electro Ball - Ranged(15ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. Electro Ball can only be used against targets slower than you.

Lanturn

Water / Electric - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 78 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Fountain, Flopper, Gilled, Glow, Swimmer, Zapper
Passives: Volt Absorb, Water Absorb (When you are hit by a water-type attack, halve the damage, then you heal that much HP instead of taking damage.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)

Underwater, the lights of Lanturn are visible from over three miles away. This light is produced by the modified dorsal fins on their heads, reacting with a special fluid they produce on their own; this reaction also gives them electrical powers. Lanturn travel in small pods of three to five members. When hunting, they lure prey in with light before disorienting victims with quick, brilliant flashes or immobilizing them with paralyzing shocks. They then swallow their prey whole. Pods of them swimming in the depths of the ocean's murky blackness are sometimes seen by fishing boats on the surface. Now, they are commonly used by fishermen to lead their boats to fishing grounds; in addition to being adept in the water and providing ample light, Lanturn can also shock fish with electricity and make them easier to catch.

Confuse Ray - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target becomes Confused.
Bubble Beam - Ranged(20ft beam) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Discharge - Ranged(10ft burst) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Paralyzed.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 2, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Ocean Abyss / Ocean Floor

Evolution: Chinchou

Lanturn

Proficiencies: Electric / Ice (Lanturn) / Water / Glutton / Piscian

668

Clauncher / Clawitzer 

Clauncher

Water - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Mega Launcher (Your pulse attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Water Sport - Melee Water Effect: At-Will. Put a Water Coat on the target or yourself. The Coat has the following ability: Reduce damage from Fire attacks that hit you by 10. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.
Vise Grip - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8.

Clauncher can be most commonly found crawling around in warm reefs, though they also inhabit cooler waters as well. These Pokťmon are most famous for their specialized right claws, which are much larger than their left ones. These claws can fire compressed shots of water much like pistols by expelling pressurized internal gas from within these Pokťmon's bodies. At close range, a single shot from a Clauncher claw can pulverize stone. These shots can travel surprisingly far, though they lose speed and force exponentially as they travel. Clauncher use these claws to hunt prey and defend themselves from enemies, shooting bullets of water at foes from a distance. They also use them to jet themselves through the water in quick bursts. The lighting-quick mechanism Clauncher use to fire water, which is too fast to be seen by the human eye, also creates a cavitation bubble that collapses to make a booming sound that is loud enough to deafen or even paralyze those that are too close. This sound is currently one of the loudest naturally-produced noises known in the entire ocean. These claws can occasionally fall off, leaving Clauncher temporarily defenseless.
Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Water 3, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Ocean Floors / Ocean Reefs

Clawitzer

Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 12

Skills: Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Fountain, Gilled, Swimmer
Passives: Mega Launcher

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +6, Effect +3)

Aura Sphere - Ranged(30ft) Fighting Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. You can't miss targets with less than 20 Special Defense.
Water Pulse - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Dark Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dark Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Evolution: Clauncher

Clawitzer

Proficiencies: Water / Elemental Attack I / Energy Blast (Clawitzer) / Pulse (Clawitzer)

669

When Clauncher evolve into Clawitzer, their launching

Corphish are widely known as an invasive species,

claws develop greatly while the rest of their bodies remain proliferating in nearly any body of water they enter. Able to

mostly unchanged. The right claws of these Pokťmon,

tolerate even the dirtiest waters, they quickly spread. When

through the expulsion of highly pressurized gas, can launch Corphish begin populating a pond, they will begin bullying

large cannonballs of water at high speeds through great out native residents using their sharp claws; only the

distances. Such shots are able to pierce directly through hardiest species can tolerate the continual harassment.

the hulls of boats. Additionally, these claws can expel water When they pinch foes, they hold onto them for as long as

from specialized nozzles on their rears to propel Clawitzer possible. Corphish can eat virtually anything; this, in

forwards. The collapse of the cavitation bubbles these

combination with their pollution tolerance, aggressiveness,

creatures produce when firing water can let loose bright quick reproductive rate, and general willpower to survive,

flashes of light incredibly loud booming sounds. Even if

has made them great dangers to biodiversity in many

Clawitzer miss their prey when hunting, which they often freshwater habitats.

do because of the unwieldy nature of their huge claws, the

deafening noise and blinding light they produce often stuns

close victims long enough to allow them to try again with

second shots. The antennae on Clawitzer launching claw

can sense changes in water currents to help it detect prey.

670

Corphish / Crawdaunt 

Corphish

Water - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Harden (+1 Defense), Leer (+1 Attack), Hyper Cutter (Your Attack cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)

Bubble - Ranged(15ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Vise Grip - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8.

Double Hit - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 2d8. Double Hit is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.

Crawdaunt

Crawdaunt are absolute menaces. Being highly aggressive, they will actively chase out all other Pokťmon in their territories other than themselves and Corphish; they will even force out competing Crawdaunt to preserve their dominance. In waters where they reside, very few other Pokťmon can be found. They enjoy challenging other Pokťmon in combat, even foes that are much weaker than themselves; in fact, they seem to enjoy bullying smaller Pokťmon even more than defeating larger ones. When Crawdaunt come across other Pokťmon in their territories, they will toss them out of the water violently with their claws. They bear scars on their carapaces with pride, indicating how many fights they have been in. They will ram their whole bodies into foes who approach their nests. They are however vulnerable after molting or losing a claw; they will bury themselves in the mud to hide during this time, becoming uncharacteristically wary of combat.

Water / Dark - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Fountain, Gilled, Swimmer

Passives: Harden, Leer, Adaptability (Moves that are the same type as you deal +4 damage.), Shell Armor (Critical hits are treated as normal hits against you.), Hyper Cutter

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)

Night Slash - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Night Slash is a critical hit.

Taunt - Ranged(20ft) Dark Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target may only use attacks that target you or your allies for 1 min.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Water 3, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Lakes / Ponds / Rivers

Crabhammer - Melee Water Attack: 3/day 3d10. Crabhammer has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Crabhammer is a critical hit.

Evolution: Corphish Crawdaunt Proficiencies: Dark / Water / Elemental Attack I

671

Dewpider / Araquanid 

Dewpider

Water / Bug - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain), Fountain (can create water), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim), Threaded (can move around on spun threads/vines)

Passives: Water Bubble (You take -4 damage from Fire-type attacks. You add +4 damage to Water-type attacks. You are immune to being Burned.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)
Bubble - Ranged(15ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Infestation - Ranged(20ft) Bug Special Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, the target is bound in place for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 special damage on its turns.
Spider Web - Ranged(20ft) Bug Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is bound in place for 1d6 turns.

Araquanid

Water / Bug - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 13

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Climber, Fountain, Gilled, Swimmer, Threaded

Passives: Water Absorb (When you are hit by a water-type attack, halve the damage, then you heal that much HP instead of taking damage.), Water Bubble

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Bubble Beam - Ranged(20ft beam) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Liquidation - Ranged(10ft) Water Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Dewpider have gills that enable them to breathe underwater. However, while they spend much of their time in the water, they primarily hunt for prey on land. To ameliorate this incongruity, these Pokťmon have evolved the ability to create bubbles of water around their heads, forming them by excreting water and proteins from their rears. They use their arms to stabilize these bubbles as when they surface. Though their heads are soft and vulnerable, their bubbles help soften the impact of blows in this area. Dewpider use their bubble-covered heads to hunt and defend themselves; they can smash their craniums into victims with so much force that the initial impact feels much more solid than mere water, thanks to the surface tension that holds the bubbles together. Their soft heads are protected all the while by the liquid. Because of this technique, however, Dewpider are unable to hunt prey at all underwater, as their bubbles do not function the same way in an aquatic medium. These Pokťmon also have a fear of sharp objects, like thorns, which can pierce and drain their water bubbles. Dewpider gauge dominance through the sizes of their helmets; Dewpider with larger bubbles can assert greater claims to territory.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Ponds / Rivers

Evolution: Dewpider

Araquanid

Proficiencies: Bug / Water / Elemental Attack I / Fangs / Parasitic

672

Araquanid can be found prowling near the water's edge in search of prey. Araquanid can stay on land for a day's time without suffocating. The bubbles are also stable enough to remain in place without having to be constantly held. Araquanid hunt by ramming their heads into prey; they will use their heads to pin them against the ground or another surface until they eventually drown. Smaller creatures sometimes get sucked completely into their bubbles and become unable to escape on their own. Araquanid can also launch bubbles from their legs to capture small prey within from afar. Araquanid take their time feeding and will use their bubbles to store leftovers after meals, sharing them with Dewpider that can swim entirely within their bubbles. Although they appear very menacing, Araquanid do seem to have soft spots for creatures in need--when they are not hungry, that is. When they come across aquatic Pokťmon stranded on land, they will bring them into their water bubbles and escort them back to safety. Unfortunately, they do not seem to differentiate between aquatic and terrestrial life; they sometimes try to rescue land-bound species only to end up drowning them.

Ducklett inhabit ponds, though they can also sometimes be found splashing around in large puddles. Their favorite food is peat moss, which is abundant in their habitats. Ducklett rarely leave their mothers' sides, walking behind them in single-file lines with their siblings. Ducklett are excellent divers. They will spend long periods of time completely submerged as they search for food. Ducklett are poor fliers, however, so they rarely take to the air, even when endangered. If attacked in the water, Ducklett will splash about wildly to distract opponents as they escape. The splashing also alerts their mothers and siblings of approaching danger. Ducklett store water in flexible sacs within their bodies; on land, they can then spray this stored water from specialized feathers on their wings at the eyes of foes, briefly obscuring their vision as they frantically waddle away. Their distressed quacking will signal to their siblings to aid them in spraying more water as well, potentially blinding threats from all possible angles.

673

Ducklett / Swanna 

Ducklett

Water / Flying - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Flight (can fly), Fountain (can create water), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Big Pecks (Your Defense cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.), Keen Eye (Your accuracy checks cannot be negatively affected by foes.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Defog - Ranged(30ft burst) Flying Field Effect: 3/day. Any Walls, Hazards, Weather, or Terrains within range are destroyed.
Wing Attack - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d8.

Swanna

Water / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Flight, Fountain, Guster (can produce wind), Swimmer

Passives: Feather Dance (+2 Defense), Tailwind (+2 Speed), Big Pecks, Hydration (While in Raining weather, you are cured of any afflictions.), Keen Eye

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +6)
Aerial Ace - Melee Flying Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense.
Bubble Beam - Ranged(20ft beam) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Brave Bird - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

Swanna are very protective of their offspring, who follow behind them in single-file lines. Despite their elegant appearances, Swanna are very territorial and deceptively aggressive. Their long necks contain powerful muscles that allow them to lunge back and forth very rapidly in order to pierce intruders that enter their domains with their sharp beaks. Their wings are also very strong. Swanna are unique in that, despite being territorial, they will still meet in flocks during specific times of the day. At dusk, they will congregate together in the middle of ponds or lakes to complete a ritualistic dance. The Swanna in the centers of these dances are the leaders of the local populations; all of the other Swanna will cede their food or land when confronted by these individuals. Once these rituals are completed, the individual Swanna will return to their own territories and resume being hostile towards others.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Flying, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Lakes / Ponds

Evolution: Ducklett

Swanna

Proficiencies: Flying / Water / Elemental Attack I / Avian / Winged

674

Feebas / Milotic 

Feebas

Water - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 12 Defense: 2 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 2

Special Attack: 1

Skills: Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Fountain (can create water), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Oblivious (You are immune to Infatuation.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +0, Effect +4)

Splash - Melee Normal Effect: At-Will. Instead of making an Accuracy Check, roll 1d20. On 18 or higher, all adjacent foes are moved 5 ft away from the user.

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Feebas are surprisingly hardy Pokťmon. They can survive in weed-choked ponds, even ones with very little water left. This does not translate well into battle, where Feebas are unable to do much. This lack of ability in combat, combined with their disheveled and tattered appearances, makes Feebas unpopular choices for most people. To compound this problem, though they can be very plentiful in many areas where other Pokťmon cannot be found, they also have the tendency to cluster in large numbers in very specific locations; despite being weak and defenseless, congregating reduces the chance of each individual of being preyed upon--strength in numbers, essentially. This behavior makes them difficult to locate. Once found, though, their dimness makes them an easy catch. Because they look quite ragged and unappetizing, though, many predators don't even bother trying to seek them out, allowing them to remain plentiful in their refuges. Feebas live near the mud at the bottoms of lakes; they are notable for being able to tolerate both fresh and salt.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Lakes / Oceans / Rivers

Evolution: Feebas

Milotic

Flail - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 1d10. If you are at less than half of your Max HP, Flail has 1d20 for damage instead. If you are at less than 5 HP, Flail has 5d12 for damage instead.

Milotic

Water - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 13

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Fountain, Gilled, Swimmer

Passives: Coil (+2 Attack, +1 Defense), Swift Swim (While in Raining weather or in water, your Speed is +2.), Competitive (If a foe lowers any of your stats, you have +2 Special Attack until your lowered stats are returned to normal.), Cute Charm (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Infatuate the attacker.), Marvel Scale (While afflicted, your Defense is +2.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)
Water Pulse - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Recover - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP.

Proficiencies: Water (Milotic) / Elemental Attack I (Milotic) / Healer (Milotic) / Piscian (Milotic)

Hydro Pump - Ranged(30ft beam) Water Special Attack: 1/ day 5d12. Hydro Pump has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Raining.

675

Milotic are said to be the most beautiful of all Pokťmon. They live at the bottoms of large lakes and can calm hostile spirits with their mere presence. With a leap into the air, they have the ability to float in the air for short periods of time. If they sense bitter feuding near the surfaces of their lakes, they will begin to glow a vivid pink and release mysterious pulses of energy to soothe everything around them. Their beautiful scales can appear as any color of the rainbow; their hue changes based on the angle at which they are seen.

Finizen live in pods, swimming through warm and temperate oceans. They frequently can be seen frolicking near the shore and swimming alongside fishing vessels, as they are quite fond of humans. Finizen use ultrasonic waves to sense the emotions of others. This not only helps them communicate efficiently with other pod members, but also helps them stay away from threats that mean them harm. Finizen can often be seen playing with one another using the water rings on their tails. These rings are made from a combination of seawater and a mucus-like fluid that they secrete from their blowholes to stabilize the water. The rings can expand and retract, and Finizen will practice their agility by swimming through many of them in aquatic obstacle courses. Finizen are also known to play with other species using the rings. When Finizen pods sense other Pokťmon in danger, they will rush to their aid. Due to their strength in numbers, the threats are frequently scared off upon their arrival.

676

Finizen / Palafin 

Finizen

Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Charm (+1 Defense), Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Water Veil (You are immune to being Burned.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)

Supersonic - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. Supersonic has -8 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.
Aqua Jet - Melee Water Attack: At-Will 2d6. Aqua Jet has Priority.
Acrobatics - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Acrobatics cannot be used if you have a held item.

Palafin (Zero)

Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 5

Palafin (Hero)

Finizen that have trained particularly hard and have an exceptionally strong sense of justice will evolve into a Palafin. One could easily be fooled into not noticing the evolution at all, however, as Palafin usually look identical to Finizen save for the heart pattern on their chests. When their pods are in danger, however, Palafin undergo a transformation into the mighty Hero Form. This transformation is usually performed in secret, sometimes even away from the eyes of their pod members. Palafin are extraordinarily strong, a trait said to be due to the awakening of ancient genes in their ancestry. They will go out of their way to protect the weak. When they sense people or Pokťmon drowning, they will race to save them at great speeds. These valiant Pokťmon will fight tirelessly to save their loved ones. Once the evil has been defeated, however, they will vanish and return to their Zero forms when no one is looking.

Water - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)
Hit Points: 60 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 9
Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 16 Special Attack: 11
Skills: Swimmer
Passives: Charm, Focus Energy, Water Veil, Zero to Hero (When Palafin is reduced to 30 or less HP or if an ally is knocked out within 30ft of Palafin, you change from your Zero form to your Hero form for 10 mins.)
Moves (Attack +3/+8, Special Attack +2/+5, Effect +5)
Focus Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 5d12. Focus Punch is a two-turn move. On the first turn: if anyone hits you before your next turn, you are Stunned. On the second turn, move up to twice your movement speed, then roll Focus Punch's Accuracy Check and damage.

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Water 2, Egg Hatch Rate - 13 Days, Diet - Carnivore, Habitat - Oceans

Evolution: Finizen

Palafin

Proficiencies: Fairy / Water / Elemental Attack I / Piscian / Punches (Palafin)

Jet Punch - Melee Water Attack: 3/day 3d8. Jet Punch has Priority.
Mist - Ice Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Misty Weather with a 60ft diameter. Within the Misty weather, Stats cannot be lowered. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

677

Finneon / Lumineon 

Finneon

Water - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Glow (can produce light), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Captivate (+2 Special Defense), Swift Swim (While in Raining weather or in water, your Speed is +2.),

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)

Pound - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Attract - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Infatuated with you.

Lumineon

Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Fountain, Flopper, Gilled, Glow, Swimmer

Finneon are nocturnal Pokťmon, found both in shallow coral reefs and deep ocean waters. During the day, they rest at the surface to bask in sunlight. Their pink tail fin spots and side bands absorb light as they sunbathe. Then, when night falls, they travel to deeper waters as their markings begin to glow softly in a mesmerizing pink hue, releasing the gathered energy. Finneon swim in large schools; the glowing patterns produced as they swim beneath the water's surface has been described by sailors as one of the most beautiful sights in the world. They swim by beating their two tail fins like wings. They may leap out of the water when swimming, though this makes them easy targets for aerial predators.

Passives: Captivate, Storm Drain (Any foe's ranged Watertype attacks within 25ft or any adjacent foe's Water-type attacks are negated and drawn to you. Your Special Attack is +2 until the end of your next turn whenever you negate a Watertype attack.), Swift Swim, Water Veil (You are immune to being Burned.)

Biology: Egg Group - Water 2, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Ocean Abyss / Ocean

Evolution: Finneon

Lumineon

Proficiencies: Water / Elemental Attack I / Piscian

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Whirlpool - Ranged(10ft) Water Special Attack: 3/day 1d4. On hit, the target is bound in place for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 special damage on its turns.

Bounce - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Bounce is a twoturn move. On the first turn, raise yourself 40 ft into the air. On the second turn, return to the ground, move up to twice your movement rate, then you may roll Bounce's Accuracy Check and damage. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Silver Wind - Ranged(10ft) Bug Special Attack: 1/day 2d8. On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour.

678

Lumineon almost exclusively live in the ocean depths

where little to no light penetrates. They are now able to

Frillish live in the deep parts of the ocean, where very

produce their own bioluminescence and do not have to rely little light penetrates. At dusk, Frillish float to higher

on the sun to gather energy. Lumineon flash light patterns oceanic zones in search of prey. They float slowly, but

on their four tail fins to attract prey. This light also attracts silently and stealthily in the ocean currents. Victims almost

predators, though; to avoid detection, they walk on the sea floor by using their pelvic fins as legs, sneaking beneath most attackers. They court mates by completing intricate dances involving flashing lights and flapping fins with their partners before mating.

never notice these Pokťmon approaching until it is too late. To capture prey, Frillish wrap their ribbon-like tentacles around their victims, paralyzing them with an incapacitating poison injected by the near-invisible spines lining these appendages. Then, Frillish drag their prey down into the ocean depths and back to their lairs, where

victims succumb to the crushing pressure of the water

above and drown. Small swarms of these Pokťmon

sometimes congregate around boats in the middle of the

sea at night. Sailors must be careful to stay on their ships

where they are safe from becoming prey.

679

Frillish / Jellicent 

Frillish

Water / Ghost - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Flight (can fly), Fountain (can create water), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Stealth (can make stealth skill checks), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Cursed Body (When you are hit by a foe's melee attack, disable that attack for 10 mins. Cursed Body can only affect one attack at a time.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Bubble - Ranged(15ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Poison Sting - Melee Poison Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

Jellicent

Water / Ghost - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 11

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Flight, Fountain, Gilled, Stealth, Swimmer

Passives: Cursed Body, Damp (Chloroblast, Explosion, Misty Explosion, and Self-Destruct fail to do anything if used within 40ft of you.), Water Absorb (When you are hit by a water-type attack, halve the damage, then you heal that much HP instead of taking damage.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)
Ominous Wind - Ranged(10ft) Ghost Special Attack: 1/day 2d8. On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour.
Brine - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target is at less than half of their Max HP, Brine has 5d8 for damage instead.
Hex - Ranged(15ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target is afflicted, Hex has 5d8 for damage instead.

Jellicent spend much of their time in the deepest parts of the ocean. Swarms of Jellicent are often found in ocean trenches and abysses. When night falls, Jellicent venture to the ocean's surface to feed. By absorbing and then expelling seawater from their bodies, they can propel themselves and swim about. Many seafaring legends warn of Jellicent swarms, cautioning that no ship or crew has ever entered a Jellicent habitat and returned. Indeed, Jellicent do seem to have an unusual affinity for human ships. They tend to be found more frequently near cruise ships and tankers full of passengers. Jellicent feed on life force, leaving victims as empty husks that sink down into the ocean depths. They even seem to congregate at the ocean's surface on nights of the full moon, when ships are most plentiful. Their crowns are thought to grow larger the more life force they consume. It is said that on the ocean floor lies a Jellicent castle made of sunken shipwrecks.

Biology: Egg Group - Amorphous / Water 3, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Carnivore, Habitat - Ocean Abyss / Oceans

Evolution: Frillish

Jellicent

Proficiencies: Ghost / Water / Elemental Attack I / Parasitic

680

Goldeen / Seaking 

Goldeen

Water - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Swift Swim (While in Raining weather or in water, your Speed is +2.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)

Peck - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Supersonic - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. Supersonic has -8 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.
Horn Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8.

Goldeen are strong swimmers. In warm spring seasons, it is common to see groups of them swimming upriver against powerful currents and waterfalls in search of nesting grounds. Their beautiful, yet powerful fins billow behind them as they swim. Though many keep Goldeen in aquariums because of their elegant appearances, this is not a wise idea. Their horns can shatter thick glass with ease. In the wild, Goldeen will compete to see who have the largest and strongest horns. Goldeen prefer large bodies of water and will swim down streams in search of larger lakes or rivers. Goldeen will not hesitate to ram into foes if threatened, attacking with their horns.
Biology: Egg Group - Water 2, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Lakes / Ponds / Rivers

Seaking

Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Fountain, Flopper, Gilled, Swimmer
Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Tail Whip, Lightning Rod (Any foe's ranged Electric-type attacks within 25ft or any adjacent foe's Electric-type attacks are negated and drawn to you. Your Special Attack is +2 until the end of your next turn whenever you negate an Electric-type attack.), Swift Swim, Water Veil (You are immune to being Burned.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Evolution: Goldeen

Seaking

Proficiencies: Water / Elemental Attack I / Horned / Piscian

Waterfall - Melee Water Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Horn Drill - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day. On hit, roll 1d20. On a natural result of 17, 18, 19, or 20, the target is set to 0 HP.

Megahorn - Melee Bug Attack: 1/day 5d12.

681

Seaking can often be seen swimming up powerful currents in their cold, nesting season. During this time, they become fatter and more colorful. Rivers they swim in may appear a bright red due to the sheer number of Seaking and Goldeen swimming up them. They can be seen jumping over rapids and waterfalls during their treks upstream. Seaking perform courtship rituals on the riverbed to woo others. Nests are fiercely guarded by both parents, who will stay together until their eggs are hatched. Mates take turns patrolling around their nests, fending off attackers with jabs from their horns. Seaking will defend their eggs with their lives. These eggs hatch soon, at which point the baby Goldeen are left to fend for themselves.

Krabby dwell on sandy beaches and in muddy estuaries, digging into the sand so that they are not washed away by the waves. They are scavengers, feeding on whatever the tides bring in. If food is scarce, they may even eat sand to obtain nutrients. This can lead to fierce fights between Krabby over land. If their claws break off during battle, they can regrow stronger ones to replace them. They use their claws to balance while walking sideways, so they cannot move properly when missing one. Krabby are hardy Pokťmon that can live near water of various salinities and pollution levels. They grow by molting their exoskeletons. By absorbing seawater and expanding themselves slightly, they loosen their old shells and cast them off. It takes a few days for their new shell to harden. During these periods, they will hide in their burrows to protect themselves. Krabby can spew foam from their mouths when threatened to cover their bodies and make themselves appear larger.

682

Krabby / Kingler 

Krabby

Water - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 18 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Harden (+1 Defense), Leer (+1 Attack), Hyper Cutter (Your Attack cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.)

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +1, Effect +2)
Bubble - Ranged(15ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Vise Grip - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8.
Mud Shot - Ranged(10ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

The defining characteristic of Kingler is how one of their claws is significantly larger than the other. These superclaws are as hard as iron, but unfortunately are just as heavy. They can exert crushing, but due to their weights, are extremely unwieldy to use in battle. If Kingler attempt to move them too quickly, they may lose balance and stumble. However, due to their sheer power, only a single blow needs to connect to defeat most foes. Out of battle, these large claws aren't very efficient for most everyday tasks, so they tend to use their smaller ones instead. When signaling to fellow Kingler or competing for dominance, however, they will wave their larger claws wildly in the air. While their armor is rock-hard, though, their exoskeletons do have a chink, which can be revealed by flipping them over onto their backs. This weak spot can be attacked to easily defeat them.

Kingler

Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 13 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 14

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Fountain, Gilled, Swimmer

Passives: Harden, Leer, Hyper Cutter, Sheer Force (Your attacks that have additional effects that affect the target may deal +4 damage, but will not have those additional effects.), Shell Armor (Critical hits are treated as normal hits against you.)

Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +2, Effect +4)

Biology: Egg Group - Water 3 / Bug, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Beaches / Rivers

Evolution: Krabby

Kingler

Proficiencies: Water / Elemental Attack I / Slashing

Metal Claw - Melee Steel Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.
Stomp - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Crabhammer - Melee Water Attack: 3/day 3d10. Crabhammer has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Crabhammer is a critical hit.

This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2. 683

Magikarp / Gyarados 

Magikarp

Water - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 12 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 2

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 1

Special Attack: 2

Skills: Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Fountain (can create water), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Swift Swim (While in Raining weather or in water, your Speed is +2.)

Moves (Attack +0, Special Attack +1, Effect +4) Splash - Melee Normal Effect: At-Will. Instead of making an Accuracy Check, roll 1d20. On 18 or higher, all adjacent foes are moved 5 ft away from the user. Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Flail - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 1d10. If you are at less than half of your Max HP, Flail has 1d20 for damage instead. If you are at less than 5 HP, Flail has 5d12 for damage instead.
Gyarados
Water / Flying - Huge (Size), Superweight (Weight) Hit Points: 60 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 10 Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 14 Special Attack: 6 Skills: Flight (can fly), Fountain, Gilled, Swimmer Passives: Dragon Dance (+1 Attack, +1 Speed), Intimidate (+1 Defense), Scary Face (+2 Speed), Swift Swim
Moves (Attack +7, Special Attack +3, Effect +5) Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned. Ice Fang - Melee Ice Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is randomly either Stunned or Frozen. Aqua Tail - Melee Water Attack: 1/day 3d12.

Magikarp are often regarded as the "most useless Pokťmon." The most they normally can do is use splash around. Splashing Magikarp make easy prey for Flying-type Pokťmon, who can snatch them up as they bounce. They are also weak swimmers, unable to swim through even weak currents. As a result, many of them congregate in small ponds or lakes, unable swim through river currents. Magikarp are very hardy, however, with strong survival instincts and immune systems. They are able to tolerate waters of nearly any salinity, depth, and pollution level. It is believed that in the ancient relatives of Magikarp were far more powerful than they are today; why they became so weak is a mystery.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 2 / Dragon, Egg Hatch Rate - 2 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Lakes / Oceans / Rivers

Evolution: Magikarp

Gyarados

Proficiencies: No moves from Any (Magikarp) / Dark (Gyarados) / Dragon (Gyarados) / Water (Gyarados) / Elemental Attack (Gyarados) / Piscian (Gyarados)

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2. 684

Gyarados are powerful and ruthless Pokťmon whose fangs can crush boulders and whose scales are as hard as iron. Gyarados has a great production of a hormone that causes them to become more violent. Gyarados are known for their destructive tendencies. When angered, raging Gyarados will destroy nearby fields and cities, not stopping until everything they can see is in ruins. They will fire the devastating attacks from their mouths to burn forests and buildings to the ground, even in torrential storms. The flames their attacks create take huge amounts of water to extinguish. Their rampages can last as long as a week. Gyarados have been mentioned in many pieces of ancient literature, appearing during war and other times of conflict and destroying everything indiscriminately.

Mantyke are very active, friendly Pokťmon. They are most commonly found swimming besides or even within schools of smaller Water-types, skimming the surface. The patterns on their backs differ from region to region. Due to their curious, playful natures, they will often approach ships to examine them, allowing passengers to glimpse their patterns. These Pokťmon use their antennae to detect changes in water currents.

685

Mantyke / Mantine 

Mantyke

Water / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 12

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 2

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Swift Swim (While in Raining weather or in water, your Speed is +2.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Bubble - Ranged(15ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Supersonic - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. Supersonic has -8 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.

Mantine

Water / Flying - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 14

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Fountain, Flight (can fly), Gilled, Swimmer

Mantine are very calm, docile Pokťmon. They are often found in the wild with a smaller Water-type attached under one of their wings. The two Pokťmon have a mutualistic relationship; the follower, usually young and unable to hunt for themselves, feed off of scraps from their hosts' meals, and the Mantine in turn get periodically cleaned as the follower consumes detritus and food scraps from their bodies. They are usually swim slowly, gliding gently through the water and eating anything that happens to float into their mouths. However, they are able to reach very high speeds; in fact, one can sometimes see small schools of Mantine accelerating just under the water's surface before leaping out and becoming airborne. Mantine can soar for over 300 feet. Though they appear smooth, their bodies feel coarse, having accumulated detritus while flying through the water.

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Swift Swim, Water Absorb (When you are hit by a water-type attack, halve the damage, then you heal that much HP instead of taking damage.), Water Veil (You are immune to being Burned.)

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Water 2, Egg Hatch Rate - 13 Days, Diet - Carnivore, Habitat - Ocean

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +4, Effect +4)
Water Pulse - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Evolution: Mantyke

Mantine

Proficiencies: Flying / Water / Elemental Attack I / Piscian

Air Slash - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. Air Slash has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Bounce - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Bounce is a twoturn move. On the first turn, raise yourself 40 ft into the air. On the second turn, return to the ground, move up to twice your movement rate, then you may roll Bounce's Accuracy Check and damage. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

686

Panpour / Simipour 

Panpour

Water - Small (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 30 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain), Fountain (can create water)

Passives: Leer (+1 Attack), Play Nice (+1 Defense), Torrent (When you are below 20 HP, your Water-type attacks deal +4 damage)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)

Scratch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Lick - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d8. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Panpour can be found in forests near sources of fresh water. Despite being adept swimmers, they spend most of their time on land foraging for Berries. Panpour can store water in the tufts of fur on their heads, allowing them to travel long distances while staying hydrated. Flexible, hoselike structures run down their backs and through their tails, enabling them to shoot water out of their tails at varying pressures to defend themselves from enemies. In addition to storing water, these tufts also infuse the water they store with nutrients and minerals Panpour obtain from their food. This makes Panpour water very nutritious, particularly for plants. Though Panpour cannot plant their own sources of food, they are smart enough to learn how to water plants in order to encourage their growth. Plants watered by Panpour grow exceptionally large thanks to the fortified water Panpour spray. In hot weather, Panpour may spray themselves in order to cool down.

Biology: Egg Group - Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet Omnivore, Habitat - Beaches / Forests / Jungles

Evolution: Panpour

Water Stone Simipour

Simipour
Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)
Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6
Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 11 Special Attack: 10
Skills: Climber, Fountain
Passives: Leer, Play Nice, Prankster (Your attacks that do not deal damage on hit have Priority.), Torrent
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +5, Effect +5)
Fury Swipes - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Fury Swipes has -2 during Accuracy Check. Fury Swipes is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Scald - Ranged(10ft) Water Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned. Scald can Burn Fire-types.
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Proficiencies: Water / Elemental Attack I / Tricky

687

Simipour can use their tails to siphon in and spray out water. They store water in the lengthy tufts of fur draping down their heads and can expel it out of their tails with enough force to pulverize stone. Simipour are very mellow Pokťmon that rarely become aggressive towards others. They are often found dwelling near clean, freshwater lakes where they can easily refill their tufts. Simipour are known to water nearby plants, particularly their food sources, Berry trees, in order to foster their growth.

Psyduck suffer from constant headaches, and for that reason are always holding their heads in pain; sometimes they even cry as a result. However, when their pain worsens, they gain psychokinetic powers on par with many Psychic-types. Curiously, once the majority of their suffering subsides, they are unable to remember such incidents, as if they underwent amnesia immediately after every psychic episode. This causes them much confusion; they are always is in a state of bewilderment as a result, tilting their heads slightly to one side. Psyduck have no control whatsoever over their powers--in fact, the majority of their brain cells are dormant, in a state very similar to that of a person in deep sleep. A mild positive feedback loop may exist between their brain activity and psychokinesis, such that using psychokinesis activates their brain cells and activating their brain cells increases their psychokinesis; as a result, these Pokťmon try to think as little as possible and instead stare blankly into space.

688

Psyduck / Golduck 

Psyduck

Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Swimmer (can swim), Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)

Passives: Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Damp (Chloroblast, Explosion, Misty Explosion, and Self-Destruct fail to do anything if used within 40ft of you.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)
Scratch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Golduck can control their mild psychic powers entirely. As a result, they can utilize Psychic-type moves in addition to Water-type attacks. The gems on their heads glow when using their psychic abilities. Golduck are exceptionally fast and graceful swimmers. They may need to relocate to larger lakes and rivers after evolving to give themselves ample room because of this. Using their webbed limbs, they can easily outspeed even the fastest human swimmers, and as such can make quick work of agile prey; they may even use their psychic abilities to disorient and disable their prey before catching them. Surprisingly, Golduck rely heavily on their tails for swimming strength, stamina and maneuverability in addition to their limbs. They can often be seen gliding agilely through the water at dusk in slower rivers.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Beaches / Lakes / Rivers

Evolution: Psyduck

Golduck

Proficiencies: Psychic / Water / Elemental Attack I / Weather (Golduck)

Golduck

Water - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight) Hit Points: 48 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Fountain, Swimmer, Telekinetic

Passives: Tail Whip, Cloud Nine (As a free action you may deplete one use of Defog and use Defog.), Damp, Swift Swim (While in Raining weather or in water, your Speed is +2.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)
Aqua Jet - Melee Water Attack: At-Will 2d6. Aqua Jet has Priority.
Aqua Tail - Melee Water Attack: 1/day 3d12.
Psybeam - Ranged(15ft beam) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

689

Remoraid / Octillery 

Remoraid

Water - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Hustle (Your attacks against foes have -2 Accuracy. After the first time you miss an attack during an encounter, the -2 Accuracy penalty is removed and you gain +4 Attack until the end of the encounter.), Sniper (When you land a critical hit, you deal an additional 8 damage.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Psybeam - Ranged(15ft beam) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Aurora Beam - Ranged(15ft beam) Ice Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, all target's Attack are -1 for 10 mins.

Octillery

Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Amorphous (can squeeze through almost anything), Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain), Fountain, Gilled, Swimmer

Passives: Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Sniper, Suction Cups (You cannot be moved by a foe's attacks.)

Remoraid begin their lives in the sea. Upon hatching, they are largely unable to find hunt on their own. Instead, they use the suction pad-like fins on their heads to attach to the undersides of larger Water-types. There, they can consume scraps that drift past them while the larger Pokťmon is feeding. They will also defend the larger Pokťmon when they are endangered in order to keep their hosts safe. Once they are old enough to find food for themselves, they travel into freshwater rivers. Remoraid hunt by hiding just beneath the river's surface and shooting out bullets of water at unsuspecting Bug-types above. They can shoot up to 50 feet away with amazing accuracy, even at moving targets. To do this, Remoraid squeeze their abdominal muscles to expel small pellets of water from their mouth. They also use this trick to escape from foes, propelling themselves backwards with the recoil. These shots even work underwater, striking foes from crevices on the riverbed or sea floor.

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +5, Effect +2)
Octazooka - Ranged(15ft) Water Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -3 during their next turn.
Signal Beam - Ranged(15ft beam) Bug Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Confused.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Water 2, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Carnivore, Habitat - Ocean Floors / Ocean

Evolution: Remoraid

Octillery

Proficiencies: Water / Elemental Attack I / Munition

Bullet Seed - Ranged(10ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 1d4. Bullet Seed has -2 during Accuracy Check. Bullet Seed is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

690

Octillery are marine Pokťmon, though some freshwater Seel prefer to swim in artic oceans. However, they have

populations have also been reported. They are clever,

been seen merrily swimming in warmer waters. Seel are

developing a variety of different hunting tactics to capture more active the colder the surrounding water is. Their light-

prey. Some Octillery hide under rocks or small caves with blue fur appears white and layers of blubber insulate them

only their mouth sticking out. Then, when targets pass by, from the harsh cold. Seel are night feeders that are most

they squirt ink to blind them and drag them into their

active in the evening. Sometimes, one may see a Seel

holes. Others prefer to bash prey with their rock-hard

napping near the shoreline in the morning. When hunting,

heads to stun them before capture. As a third option, some they dive underwater for extended periods of time. When

Octillery strangle their foes with their tentacles, which have they need to breathe, they surface and break through sea

powerful suction cups to prevent prey from escaping. If

ice with their horns and tusks if necessary. When Seel

they grab victims that turn out to be too strong, though, swim, they close their nostrils tightly to block out water.

they will squirt ink and attempt to escape. This ink also

They are highly social Pokťmon, living in large, raucous

contains a compound that dulls olfactory senses, hindering groups on ice floes in the middle of the sea. Seel may play-

predators that hunt by smell as well as sight. Octillery

fight with each other on these floes, sparring with their

instinctually hide in the crevices of boulders, nesting in

tusks and horns as well as Water-type and sometimes Ice-

these cracks and even stealing the nests of other Octillery if type attacks. This activity is important in teaching young

they are in more favorable positions. Octillery will bash

Seel how to defend themselves against enemies.

heads with each other to fight for nests; these fights can be

dirty, involving copious amounts of ink and tentacles.

691

Seel / Dewgong 

Seel

Water - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 5 (25 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Freezer (can create ice), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Thick Fat (You take -4 damage from Fire-type attacks and Ice-type attacks.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)
Headbutt - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Icy Wind - Ranged(10ft) Ice Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Encore - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. If the target can, it must use the last move it did for the next 3 rounds or until it no longer can.

Dewgong

Water / Ice - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Fountain, Freezer, Swimmer

Passives: Growl, Hydration (While in Raining weather, you are cured of any afflictions.), Ice Body (If in Hailing weather, you recover 4 HP after you act and you don't take damage from Hailing weather.), Thick Fat

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Sheer Cold - Ranged(15ft, 10ft wave) Ice Special Attack: 1/ day. On hit, roll 1d20. On a natural result of 17, 18, 19, or 20, the target is set to 0 HP.

Aurora Beam - Ranged(15ft beam) Ice Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, all target's Attack are -1 for 10 mins.

Aqua Tail - Melee Water Attack: 1/day 3d12.

Dewgong prefer frigid waters and become more active in colder waters. When resting, they sometimes sleep on the ocean floor or shore, but prefer to rest on ice floes. They are sunbathing while doing so, with the increased temperature aiding their digestion. There, their pristine white fur can camouflage them against predators. Dewgong are only slightly more adept on land than Seel, and as such still prefer to stay in the water. Their bodies are streamlined to minimize drag while swimming, and their long tails enable them to turn on a dime. Their fur and blubber can store thermal energy, insulating them against the bitter cold. Dewgong no longer use their tusks and horns to play-fight, since they stop growing at this stage. However, they are still useful for poking breathing holes into ice floes while swimming under them to resurface for air.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Polar

Evolution: Seel

Dewgong

Proficiencies: Ice / Water / Horned

692

Shellder / Cloyster 

Shellder

Water - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 18 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Shell Armor (Critical hits are treated as normal hits against you.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +2)

Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Supersonic - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. Supersonic has -8 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.

Cloyster

Shellder live on the sea floor, digging holes with their tongues and hiding in them with their tongues out to catch food. Their tongues are never withdrawn, even when sleeping. Yanking on them will cause them to open up in shock. Shellder can move surprisingly quickly underwater by flapping their shells. While their shells are harder than rock, their insides are very delicate. They can inject a numbing poison by clamping down on foes, but they leave their heads vulnerable when doing so. Shellder can form beautiful pearls from sand trapped in their shells, which can be sold for large sums of money. Because these pearls obstruct their vision and feeding, these Pokťmon conveniently will spit them out once formed.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 3, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Ocean Floors / Ocean Reefs / Rivers

Evolution: Shellder

Water Stone Cloyster

Proficiencies: Ice / Water / Prickly (Cloyster)

Water / Ice - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 20 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Fountain, Flopper, Freezer (can create ice), Gilled, Swimmer

Passives: Iron Defense, Overcoat (You are immune to damage from weather.), Shell Armor, Skill Link (Your scatter moves have +2 during Accuracy Check.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)

Spike Cannon - Ranged(10ft) Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Spike Cannon has -2 during Accuracy Check. Spike Cannon is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Icicle Spear - Ranged(10ft) Ice Attack: At-Will 1d4. Icicle Spear has -2 during Accuracy Check. Icicle Spear is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Clamp - Melee Water Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 damage on its turns.

693

Cloyster shells are even harder than steel; the spikes

they shoot to defend themselves and hunt are even harder. Shellos are unique in that they have two variants, a pink

To catch food, Cloyster wait on the ocean floor for prey

West Sea form and a blue East Sea form. It is easy to know

swim by before shooting these. The harpooned prey then if you are in east facing or west facing water depending on

slowly floats down to the waiting Cloyster. Cloyster are

the color of Shellos you encounter in the wild. Shellos in

capable of swimming by swallowing water and jetting it

more fertile waters are more vibrant in color; this suggests

out--this is the same process they use to shoot spikes.

that their colorations may be influenced by diet, climate, or

They can slam their shells shut with incredible force.

water temperature. It is theorized that pink West Sea

Cloyster can use clamping as a viable method of defense. Shellos are associated with warmer waters, and blue East

Their insides are virtually untouchable while their shells are Sea Shellos are associated with cooler waters. Though the

closed. Cloyster that live in stronger currents have larger two variants can still currently breed as one species, this

spikes and when a Cloyster shell is damaged, a new spike may not be case in the future, when the two forms may not

grows in place of the damaged area instead of recovering even recognize each other as related. Shellos can extend

the flat surface.

their necks very far to reach algae and plankton in difficult

places. When squeezed, they will ooze a slippery purple

fluid analogous to sweat. This substance makes it difficult

for predators to grasp them so they can flee. They can

similarly exude a sticky, but harmless purple goo to slow

attackers. Shellos also have remarkable regenerative

qualities, and researchers are currently studying their

cellular properties in order to discover the biological

mechanism behind this.

694

Shellos / Gastrodon 

Shellos

Water - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Amorphous (can squeeze through almost anything), Climber (treats walls and ceilings as normal terrain), Fountain (can create water), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Harden (+1 Defense), Sticky Hold (You cannot drop held items or have held items stolen from you.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +1)

Gastrodon exhibit evidence of allopatric speciation. The two are still considered the same species, as they will naturally breed in the rare chance that they meet, but it is believed that they will one day become distinct enough that they will no longer recognize each other. They maintain a thin but hard plate vestigial beneath their skin. Gastrodon ooze a slick purple fluid when hurt to make themselves slippery. This substance is also very bitter and renders their meat nearly inedible. They have superb regenerative skills and can grow back torn-off parts of their bodies. They are pliable because they lack skeletal systems, letting them into squeeze into tight spaces. Gastrodon can also venture terrestrially for short periods of time, especially in areas of calm waves.

Mud-Slap - Ranged(5ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 1d6. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.
Water Pulse - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Gastrodon

Water / Ground - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight) Hit Points: 66 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Amorphous, Climber, Fountain, Gilled, Swimmer

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Amorphous, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Beaches / Ocean Reefs

Evolution: Shellos

Gastrodon

Proficiencies: Ground / Water / Elemental Attack I

Passives: Harden, Sand Force (While in Sandstorming Weather, your Rock-type and Ground-type attacks deal +4 damage and you don't take damage from Sandstorming weather.), Sticky Hold, Storm Drain (Any foe's ranged Watertype attacks within 25ft or any adjacent foe's Water-type attacks are negated and drawn to you. Your Special Attack is +2 until the end of your next turn whenever you negate a Watertype attack.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +2)
Body Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed. Body Slam can Paralyze Electric-types.
Muddy Water - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Water Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, any target's Accuracy Checks are -2 during their next turn.
Recover - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP.

695

Staryu / Starmie 

Staryu

Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 18 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Flight (can fly), Fountain (can create water), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Glow (can produce light), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Harden (+1 Defense), Natural Cure (Whenever returned to a Poke Ball, you are cured of any afflictions.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Swift - Ranged(20ft) Normal Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.

Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Rapid Spin - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d8. Destroy any Hazards or Coats, and free bound allies within 5 ft. You may target Hazards, Coats, or bound allies with Rapid Spin without needing to roll Accuracy Check or damage.

Starmie

Water / Psychic - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Flight, Fountain, Gilled, Glow, Swimmer

Staryu are mysterious Pokťmon that lie on the seabed during the day and float up to the surface at night. They can regenerate extremely well; if any of their limbs are severed, they can easily grow them back. Even a Staryu cut into pieces can regenerate as long as its core is intact. Their centers are vital to their survival and are irreplaceable These cores glow brightly at night when Staryu are active. The cores of sick Staryu glow faintly and flicker. Groups of Staryu, referred to as constellations, rise to the surface each night, cores aglow. From above, oceans with large numbers of Staryu seem to mimic and align with the twinkling skies above. Staryu only become active if the stars are visible; if clouds obscure the night sky, they will stay on the sea floor and their cores will not light up.

Passives: Harden, Analytic (When attacking a foe who has already acted this round, deal +4 damage.), Natural Cure
Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +6)
Confuse Ray - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target becomes Confused.
Recover - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 3, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Beaches / Ocean Floors

Evolution: Staryu

Water Stone Starmie

Proficiencies: Psychic / Water / Elemental Attack EI (Starmie) / Energy Blast (Starmie)

Bubble Beam - Ranged(20ft beam) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

696

Starmie have iridescent cores that shine with all colors of the rainbow, a beautiful, but rare sight in oceans. They can also flash their gems in a single color, alternating between different shades as if sending coded messages. Starmie swim by spinning themselves like propellers through the water. Many believe that when Starmie pulse light from their cores into the sky at night, they are beaming radio waves. They are capable of sending out weak radio waves emanating from these Pokťmon's gems. Oddly, some people have reported developing headaches when approaching these Pokťmon.

Tentacool are very common Pokťmon in seas worldwide. They are especially prolific in areas where warm and cold currents meet, bringing an abundance of food and minerals. They can often be found drifting with the waves in shallow waters, stinging anything that provokes them with their tentacles. They also use these tentacles to feel about; however, they are unable to retract their stinging cells, so they often unintentionally sting things they are examining. These tentacles sometimes break off, but will grow back with time. As their bodies are almost completely composed of water, they will quickly dry out and shrivel up if washed ashore and left in the sun for too long. They can be revived by dousing them in water. Their high-water content also gives them a rather peculiar ability--Tentacool can refract sunlight and concentrate it into the crystals on their heads to fire strange beams of energy at foes. Though they are a common catch for anglers, beginners must be wary of their venom. Even an unconscious Tentacool can sting those foolish enough to touch their tentacles.

697

Tentacool / Tentacruel 

Tentacool

Water / Poison - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 4

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Liquid Ooze (If you are hit by an attack that damages you and heals the attacker, the attacker is dealt damage equal to what they would have healed, instead of healing.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)

Poison Sting - Melee Poison Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

Supersonic - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. Supersonic has -8 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.

Constrict - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d6. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Tentacruel

Water / Poison - Large (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 48 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 12

Speed: 10 (50 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Fountain, Gilled, Reach (melee range is 15 ft.), Swimmer

Passives: Screech (+2 Attack), Clear Body (Your stats cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.), Liquid Ooze, Rain Dish (If in Raining Weather, you regain 4 HP after you act.)

Tentacruel have 80 tentacles in total. Tentacruel keep their tentacles short and retracted. However, when hunting, the tentacles absorb water and extend to ensnare prey. They form circular nets around prey to prevent their escape. Then, they constrict their victims, stinging and weakening them by injecting venom. Tentacruel then return back to the rock formations on the sea floor that they call home, carrying their meals with them. If a Tentacruel is having a particularly rough time finding something to eat, its orbs will flash. These Pokťmon can emit ultrasonic blasts from their crystals to disturb the surrounding water and scare out prey. Additionally, they can also flash these crystals to alert surrounding Tentacruel of approaching danger. When conditions are right, many Tentacruel will suddenly congregate and clear an area of all fish.

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +5)
Water Pulse - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Wrap - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 physical damage on its turns.
Poison Jab - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 3 / Amorphous, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Carnivore, Habitat - Beaches / Oceans
Evolution: Tentacool Tentacruel
Proficiencies: Poison / Water / Elemental Attack I

698

Tirtouga / Carracosta 

Tirtouga

Water / Rock - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Fountain (can create water), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Withdraw (+1 Defense), Solid Rock (Supereffective attacks against you deal ≠4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +1)
Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Rollout - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Rollout against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Rollout's damage.
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Tirtouga were originally alive about one-hundred million years ago. Due to modern fossil reanimation technology, some are now rarely found in the wild again. Tirtouga can withstand intense pressure and can dive half a beneath the water's surface. Though slow and clumsy on land, they nevertheless could beach themselves onto shores in order to capture unsuspecting prey. Indeed, some studies suggest that a sizable portion of their meals came from terrestrial prey. Tirtouga are thought to have gone extinct because they were unable to compete with similar predators.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Water 3, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Beaches / Oceans

Evolution: Tirtouga

Carracosta

Proficiencies: Rock / Water / Fangs / Elemental Attack I

Carracosta

Water / Rock - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 14 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 11

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Fountain, Swimmer

Passives: Withdraw, Solid Rock, Sturdy (If you would be brought from Max HP to 0 or below, you are instead brought to 1 HP.), Swift Swim (While in Raining weather or in water, your Speed is +2.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +4, Effect +1)
Ancient Power - Ranged(10ft) Rock Special Attack: 1/day 2d8. On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour.
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Aqua Tail - Melee Water Attack: 1/day 3d12.

699

Wailmer spend much of their time swimming in the

open ocean in pods. On bright and sunny mornings,

Carracosta can survive for long periods of time both on however, they may begin swimming towards the shoreline.

land and in the water. Their large lungs can store enough They can survive for very short periods of time outside of

air for them to dive for over half an hour before having to the water, taking full advantage of this by beaching

resurface. They have extremely powerful front flippers,

themselves on the sand to play. By swallowing large

which are capable of breaking through the hulls of small boats in a single slap. Carracosta also have very strong jaws, which they use to chew up rocks, shells, bones, and metal ore. They periodically consume these materials in order to strengthen their thick shells. It is believed that these Pokťmon preyed primarily upon shelled prey, deriving much of the calcium for their own shells from their meals. Like Tirtouga, Carracosta went extinct because of competition for food from other Pokťmon. Though sturdy

amounts of seawater, Wailmer can use their buoyant bodies to bounce around on land. The more water they swallow, the higher they can bounce. Due to their sizes, though, they may become hazards for other beach-goers when they bounce. Their nostrils are located above their eyes and for fun they will startle fishermen by suddenly spouting water from them. Wailmer eat tons of plankton daily, filtering water through their baleen. If they lose too

and strong, they also needed a lot of food to survive, so

much of their stored water, they will begin to dry out and

they could not compete with smaller, faster Pokťmon for become lethargic. Kind beach-goers will often take the time

limited resources.

to dump buckets of water onto dry Wailmer to rejuvenate

them.

700

Wailmer / Wailord 

Wailmer

Water - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 78 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Beached (needs to be in water), Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Fountain (can create water), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Oblivious (You are immune to Infatuation.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +3)

Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Rollout - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Rollout against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Rollout's damage.

Wailord are the largest Pokťmon. They swim in pods, swallowing whole schools of tiny Water-types at once to satiate their massive diets. This can also make them a nuisance for fishermen, who sometimes have to chase them off if they encroach too heavily on their catches. These social Pokťmon protect their own; if one member of a pod is attacked by a predator, the others will come to its aid and surround the attacker. When hunting, Wailord pods will leap out of the water, landing back down with humongous splashes to disorient prey and make capturing them in single gulps easy. They will also use this tactic to confuse foes. Though they must surface to breathe air every once in a while, they can dive as far as 10,000 feet with a single breath. If attacked, Wailord will jet water from its blowhole at opponents using to knock them away. In popular media, Wailord are known for their slow, graceful swimming.

Astonish - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Wailord

Water - Gigantic (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 102 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Beached, Flopper, Fountain, Swimmer

Passives: Growl, Oblivious, Pressure (If you are hit by a 3/ day attack, the attacker can't use that attack for the remainder of the day.), Water Veil (You are immune to being Burned.)

Biology: Egg Group - Field / Water 2, Egg Hatch Rate - 20 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Oceans
Evolution: Wailmer Wailord
Proficiencies: Water/ Elemental Attack I / Piscian / Stampeding

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)
Water Pulse - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Water Spout - Ranged(30ft burst) Water Special Attack: 1/ day 3d10. If you are at Max HP, Water Spout has 5d12 for damage instead.
Bounce - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Bounce is a twoturn move. On the first turn, raise yourself 40 ft into the air. On the second turn, return to the ground, move up to twice your movement rate, then you may roll Bounce's Accuracy Check and damage. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

701

Wiglett / Wugtrio 

Wiglett

Water - Medium (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 6 Defense: 3 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 11 (55 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Burrow (moves through earth easily), Gilled (can breathe underwater)

Passives: Gooey (+1 Speed), Rattled (When a foe hits you with a Bug-type, Ghost-type, or Dark-type attack, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins. This can stack.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +5)
Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Sand Attack - Ranged(10ft) Ground Effect: At-Will. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.
Wrap - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 physical damage on its turns.

Wugtrio
Water - Medium (Size), Light (Weight)
Hit Points: 24 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 7
Speed: 13 (65 ft.) Attack: 10 Special Attack: 5
Skills: Burrow, Gilled
Passives: Gooey, Rattled, Sand Veil (While in Sandstorming Weather, any foe's attacks made against you have -1 during accuracy check and you don't take damage from Sandstorming weather.)
Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +2, Effect +6)

No one knows what Wiglett look like under the ground, or even how long they truly are. Wiglett are well-adapted to sliding in and out of narrow burrows. They peep their heads out of the sand and use their extraordinary senses of smell to detect predators like from over 20 meters away. When they sense one nearby, they immediately dart back into their holes where the attackers cannot follow. Wiglett commonly make their homes in large colonies on shallow sea banks and sandbars. From afar, swimmers can see dozens of them swaying in the currents; they will duck in unison as soon as a person or Pokťmon gets too close, though. Wiglett can also spend prolonged periods of time with their heads out of the water, as long as their bodies remain moist.

Dig - Melee Ground Attack: 3/day 3d10. Dig is a two-turn move. On the first turn, burrow up to 40 ft straight down. On the second turn, burrow up to your movement speed +40 ft, then you can roll Dig's Accuracy Check and damage.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 3, Egg Hatch Rate - 20 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Beaches, Oceans

Evolution: Wiglett

Wugtrio

Throat Chop - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the Proficiencies: Dark (Melee Attacks) (Wugtrio) / Ground

target may not use attacks or abilities that require the use

/ Water / Elemental Attack I

of the target's voice for 5 mins.

Triple Dive - Melee Water Attack: 3/day 1d12. Triple Dive is a Scatter attack. Up to 3 attacks. Triple Dive's third attack on hit deals an additional 1d12 damage.

702

Wugtrio also resemble Wiglett underground in that no

one knows what their true bodies look like. It isn't even

Wingull build nests on sheer oceanside cliffs. They fly by

known whether the three units are three separate individu- catching marine updrafts and gliding on them with their

als or if they are three heads of a single body. Eternally en- long wings; they have hollow bones to facilitate this. These

cased in stone, Wugtrio are ambush predators that conceal updrafts can take Wingull fairly high in the sky. They are

themselves in holes bored in shale and other soft rocks. clumsy when it comes to flapping, so they usually glide in-

When unwary prey pass by, they lunge out in triplicate, en- stead. Their beaks are adept at catching fish near the

tangling their victims with their own bodies before dragging water's surface, though they can also dive if necessary. Win-

them back to their dens. They are actually quite vicious

gull have a habit of bringing back food and objects they find

Pokťmon that will go after targets much larger than them- and hiding them near their nests. This behavior increases

selves, though they seem to avoid humans.

as winter approaches, when they begin storing more food

than they eat. When Wingull rest, they fold their wings in-

wards, forming M shapes. When Wingull flock in the sky,

fishermen know many fish lurk below.

703

Wingull / Pelipper 

Wingull

Water / Flying - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 4 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 3

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Flight (can fly), Fountain (can create water)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Keen Eye (Your accuracy checks cannot be negatively affected by foes.)

Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)

Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Wing Attack - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d8.
Supersonic - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. Supersonic has -8 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.

Pelipper

Water / Flying - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 5

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Flight, Fountain, Guster (can produce wind)
Passives: Growl, Tailwind (+2 Speed), Drizzle (As a free action you may deplete one use of Rain Dance and use Rain Dance.), Hydration (While in Raining weather, you are cured of any afflictions.), Keen Eye, Rain Dish (If in Raining Weather, you regain 4 HP after you act.)

Moves (Attack +2, Special Attack +5, Effect +4)

Water Pulse - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Roost - Self Flying Effect: 1/day. You must be on the ground to use Roost. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP. You lose Flying-type until your next turn.

Pelipper are most notable for their enormous beaks. They use these beaks to skim the sea's surface, swallowing the contents in single gulps. The beaks are also slightly buoyant; when Pelipper are tired, they rest by landing on the water and bobbing with the waves. Pelipper build nests on steep seaside cliffs. In addition to catching food, their beaks also serve a myriad of other uses. Most notably, Pelipper can carry objects across large swathes of sea. In the past, people used Pelipper to send messages overseas; sailors still utilize them today to relay information, especially in areas where other forms of communication aren't available. Pelipper will carry small Pokťmon and items across the sea in exchange for food. They are easygoing, if a bit absentminded, creatures that will gladly help lost people and Pokťmon find their way back to shore. Pelipper usually live in large colonies; seeing one means there are hundreds nearby.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Flying, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Beaches / Oceans

Evolution: Wingull

Pelipper

Proficiencies: Flying / Water / Elemental Attack I / Avian / Glutton / Winged

Hydro Pump - Ranged(30ft beam) Water Special Attack: 1/ day 5d12. Hydro Pump has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Raining.

704

Wooper / Quagsire 

Wooper

Water / Ground - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 5 Special Defense: 3

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Tail Whip (+1 Attack), Damp (Chloroblast, Explosion, Misty Explosion, and Self-Destruct fail to do anything if used within 40ft of you.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +1, Effect +1)
Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Mud Shot - Ranged(10ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Slam has -2 during Accuracy Check.

Wooper make their homes in cooler areas of fresh water. Though they prefer brisk rivers and ponds, they have a low tolerance for icy waters and subzero temperatures. As amphibians, Wooper are able to survive both in water and on land. They alter their hunting patterns from water to land based on the weather; when it is cooler, such as in the evening, Wooper will hunt terrestrially, but when it is warmer, like during the day, they will hunt aquatically. They cover themselves with a slimy film to stay moist outside of the water. Wooper will often leave trails of this slime walking around on land. The growths on the sides of their heads are gills; individuals with larger gills are considered more attractive to mates. When resting, Wooper will bury themselves in the sand to hide from predators.
Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Field, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Lakes / Marshes / Ponds / Rivers
Evolution: Wooper Quagsire
Proficiencies: Ground / Water / Elemental Attack I

Quagsire

Water / Ground - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Fountain, Gilled, Swimmer

Passives: Amnesia (+2 Special Defense), Tail Whip, Damp, Water Absorb (When you are hit by a water-type attack, halve the damage, then you heal that much HP instead of taking damage.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Mud Bomb - Ranged(10ft) Ground Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.
Muddy Water - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Water Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, any target's Accuracy Checks are -2 during their next turn.
Yawn - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target falls Asleep after its next turn.

Evolution Shift compatible with Wooper (High Ground) family (540)
705

Quagsire are famous for their lax and easygoing natures. They rarely move; when they do, though, they swim in slow and relaxed manners. Quagsire will often bump into nearby objects as they swim, including boulders and boat hulls. However, they are unfazed by these collisions, in part due to their strong skulls. Even when hunting, Quagsire remain at ease. They don't move in search of food; instead, they simply remain in one place and hold their mouths agape, waiting for unwary prey to swim through. Then, they just close their mouths to catch their food. Although it isn't a terribly efficient manner of hunting, this technique suffices for Quagsire since they expend very little energy in the first place.
706

707

Clamperl / Huntail 
/ Gorebyss

Clamperl

Water - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Shell Armor (Critical hits are treated as normal hits against you.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +1)

Clamp - Melee Water Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 damage on its turns.

Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Whirlpool - Ranged(10ft) Water Special Attack: 3/day 1d4. On hit, the target is bound in place for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 special damage on its turns.

Huntail

Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 12

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Fountain, Flopper, Gilled, Swimmer

Passives: Scary Face (+2 Speed), Screech (+2 Attack), Swift Swim (While in Raining weather or in water, your Speed is +2.), Water Veil (You are immune to being Burned.)

Clamperl have shells capable of deflecting most attacks directed at them. As a side effect of this, their shells are often covered in nicks and gashes by the time they are ready for evolution. Their main bodies are the fleshy blue muscles within their shells; their "heads" are the pink pearls nestled within. The longer they live, the larger these pearls grow. Clamperl hunt small aquatic prey; they patiently wait for unwary prey to swim by before quickly clamping their shells shut around them. Clamperl only create a single pearl during their lifetimes, the one that they use as heads. These pearls are lauded as being imbued by mysterious powers that focus psychic abilities when held. When Clamperl evolve, they release their pearls onto the ocean floor. These pearls often make their way to shore via currents.

Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Water Pulse - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Ice Fang - Melee Ice Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is randomly either Stunned or Frozen.

708

Huntail most often dwell in deep ocean waters, where little light ever penetrates. Despite this, their eyes are very keen, letting them see clearly even in the murky depths. Their sturdy spines allow them to survive the crushing pressure of the deep. Huntail utilize bioluminescence to capture prey. The spots on their bodies light up to attract food. They are not very strong swimmers, and instead use their fish-shaped tails to lure in prey. The eyes on their tails glow as they wave them back and forth, fooling victims into swimming closer. Then, they unhinge their jaws and swallow their victim whole. Huntail swim by wriggling their bodies like snakes. On occasion, one of their teeth may fall off as they feed. Huntail may occasionally be found near the surface of the water, but such sightings are extremely rare; the significant difference in pressure from their natural habitats is detrimental to their health, so surfacing Huntail are likely very ill and in need of immediate medical attention. It is said that a Huntail washing up on shore is an omen of bad things to come.

Gorebyss

Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 11 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 11

Skills: Fountain, Flopper, Gilled, Swimmer

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Amnesia (+2 Special Defense), Hydration (While in Raining weather, you are cured of any afflictions.), Swift Swim (While in Raining weather or in water, your Speed is +2.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +3)

Draining Kiss - Melee Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Water Pulse - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Special Attack: 3/

day 3d8. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy

Gorebyss spend much of their time in the abyss, and

Check, the target is Confused.

have developed sturdy bodies capable of withstanding the Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. pressure as a result. However, they are capable of adjust- On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins. ing their internal pressure so that they can spend extended

periods of time in sunny, shallow tropical reefs. Gorebyss

sometimes feed on seaweed growing between rocks, but

they are more well-known for their surprisingly cruel tendencies; they can pierce the flesh of prey with their siphon-like mouths and suck out their body fluids. The drained carcass then sinks to the ocean floor, where it provides valuable sustenance for benthic scavengers. Despite

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Water 3, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Ocean Abyss / Ocean Reefs / Ocean Floors

Evolution: Clamperl

Superior Attack Huntail,

this unsettling feeding method, Gorebyss are lauded as beautiful and graceful swimmers. Watching them swim is

Superior Special Attack Gorebyss

intensely mesmerizing due to their impeccable form. In the Proficiencies: Dark (Huntail) / Psychic (Gorebyss) / Water

springtime, their bodies turn a more vivid pink as the water

/ Elemental Attack I / Fangs (Huntail)

temperature rises; their coloration gets brighter in warmer

/ Parasitic (Gorebyss) / Piscian (Huntail / Gorebyss)

water, turning to an absolutely brilliant hue in tropical seas.

As Gorebyss swim, they occasionally shed a few of their

pink scales.

709

Slowpoke / Slowbro 
/ Slowking

Slowpoke

Water / Psychic - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 6 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 2 (10 ft.) Attack: 7

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Oblivious (You are immune to Infatuation.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +2, Effect +1) Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6. Yawn - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target falls Asleep after its next turn.

Slowbro

Water / Psychic - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 10

Skills: Fountain, Swimmer, Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)

Passives: Amnesia (+2 Special Defense), Withdraw (+1 Defense), Oblivious, Own Tempo (You are immune to being Confused.), Regenerator (When returned to a Poke Ball, you recover to Max HP after being stored for 1 hour.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +1)
Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Water Pulse - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Slowpoke are rather dim and slow; in fact, it can sometimes take them over five seconds to react to pain. To catch food, Slowpoke dangle their tails lazily from the shore into the sea. They secrete a sweet substance that attracts water dwelling Pokťmon. However, due to their daftness, they sometimes forget why they were even near the water in the first place. It can take them up to a day to process bites on their tails. Slowpoke tails are regarded to be very delicious. They shed and regrow their tails periodically; the shed appendages are harvested and dried for cooking.

This Pokťmon has a Mega Evolution in PHB2.
Evolution Shift compatible with Slowpoke (Spice Diet) family (544) 710

While fishing, wild Slowpoke may eventually catch Shellder on their tails. If they are sufficiently grown, these catches will catalyze their evolutions into Slowbro. The Pokťmon become one being and grow together. The added weight force Slowbro to become bipedal. Slowbro are no longer able to fish with their tails and must, to their disdain, swim to catch food. They retain their dim intellects even after evolution. However, on occasions, the tail shell will bite down and improve Slowbro psychic prowess so they may still catch prey.

Slowking

Water / Psychic - Medium (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 8 Special Defense: 13

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 11

Slowking are extremely intellectual. They maintain calm demeanors and can remain cool and collected in nearly any situation. Scientists think that the toxin secreted into their brains by the transformed Shellder latched on their heads is the source of their brainpower. When they have intuitive thoughts, the gems on their shells will light up. Curiously, their knowledge appears to somehow be stored in the shell on their heads. Humorously, some say that a vestige of Slowpoke's dimwittedness remains, and Slowking are cursed to always forget truly world-changing ideas when a new one dawns on them.

Skills: Fountain, Intelligence (very smart), Swimmer, Telekinetic
Passives: Amnesia, Nasty Plot (+1 Special Attack), Oblivious, Own Tempo, Regenerator
Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +5, Effect +1)
Water Pulse - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Swagger - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.

Heal Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or yourself. The target is healed HP equal to half of the target's Max HP.

Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Water 1, Egg Hatch Rate 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Beaches / Lakes / Rivers

Evolution: Slowpoke

Superior Defense Slowbro,

Superior Special Defense Slowking

Proficiencies: Psychic / Water / Elemental Attack (Slowbro / Slowking)

711

Alomomola 

Water - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 102 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 5

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 8

Special Attack: 4

Skills: Beached (needs to be in water), Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Fountain (can create water), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Play Nice (+1 Defense), Healer (After acting, you may roll 1d20. On 16 or higher, any adjacent allies are cured of all afflictions.), Hydration (While in Raining weather, you are cured of any afflictions.), Regenerator (When returned to a Poke Ball, you recover to Max HP after being stored for 1 hour.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)

Alomomola live in the pelagic zone of warm seas. They are often seen by fishermen leaping out of the water in graceful arcs. Alomomola enjoy sunbathing, lying down horizontally just beneath the surface. They are covered in mucoid membranes that are famous for their healing properties. These altruistic Pokťmon will bring injured creatures they find close to them and envelop them in their membranes while in their sunbathing positions before carrying them back to shore like rafts. Many ocean Pokťmon congregate near them because of this. This altruistic behavior may have evolved to help Alomomola defend themselves from nearby predators; though slow, these Pokťmon stand a better chance against predators when partnered with newly-healed allies. Perhaps due to their healing membranes, Alomomola are oddly immune to many common poisons, including that of the marine Pokťmon throughout the ocean.

Aqua Jet - Melee Water Attack: At-Will 2d6. Aqua Jet has Priority.

Heal Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or yourself. The target is healed HP equal to half of the target's Max HP.

Water Pulse - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Water 2, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Oceans
Proficiencies: Water / Elemental Attack I / Healer

Of the fossil chimeras, Arctovish are perhaps the most understandable erroneous amalgam. Both halves of the Pokťmon are aquatic and share a broadly similar body plan. What is more glaring, however, is the fact that their heads are in fact attached entirely upside-down. The paleontologists who assembled Arctovish believed that this odd mouth placement may have had to do with the fact that these Pokťmon froze the surrounding water to immobilize their prey. As ice floats, perhaps this placement allowed them to feed on cubes bobbing at the surface more easily. We now know that this is not the case, and Arctovish experience great trouble eating. Scientists had also believed that their broadened faces had toughened skin to defend against attacks much like shields. Ultimately, the original parts of Arctovish were believed to go extinct due to the subpar respiratory abilities granted by their odd gill placement. Arctovish do experience breathing problems, largely due to the facts that they have half of a mammalian and half of an piscine respiratory system, connected together quite haphazardly but miraculously in a semi-functional manner.

712

Arctovish 

Water / Ice - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 9

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Freezer (can create ice), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Ice Body (If in Hailing weather, you recover 4 HP after you act and you don't take damage from Hailing weather.), Slush Rush (While in Hailing weather, your Speed is +2 and you don't take damage from Hailing weather.), Water Absorb (When you are hit by a water-type attack, halve the damage, then you heal that much HP instead of taking damage.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)
Protect - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Protect is used as a Reaction. When you would be hit by a move, use Protect to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack.
Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Freeze-Dry - Ranged(10ft) Ice Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. Freeze-Dry is Super effective against Water types. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.

Biology: Egg Group - No Eggs, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat Unknown
Proficiencies: Ice / Water / Fangs / Piscean

Dracovish 

Water / Dragon - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 8

Speed: 8 (40 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Sand Rush (While in Sandstorming Weather, your Speed is +2 and you don't take damage from Sandstorming weather.), Strong Jaw (Your biting attacks deal +4 damage.), Water Absorb (When you are hit by a water-type attack, halve the damage, then you heal that much HP instead of taking damage.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)
Protect - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Protect is used as a Reaction. When you would be hit by a move, use Protect to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack.
Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Dragon Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Biology: Egg Group - No Eggs, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat Unknown
Proficiencies: Dragon / Water / Fangs

713

Bruxish 

Water / Psychic - Small (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 13

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Fountain (can create water), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim), Telekinetic (can move things with their mind)

Looking at what modern reanimation has done to create Dracovish, it is clear that something went horribly awry at some point in the resurrection process. Most obviously, the Pokťmon's two halves came from different species, and the head has been incorrectly attached to the wrong end of the tail. When first put together, paleontologists believed that these Pokťmon were primarily aquatic, possessing remnants of what they correctly thought were gills. However, the powerful legs made them believe that Dracovish may have briefly run out of the water to ambush terrestrial prey, despite being unable to breathe air. Modern Dracovish can survive in fully aquatic environments, preferring not to venture on land at all if they can avoid it. Consequently, their powerful legs are of no use to them beyond slowly trudging along the bottoms of their tanks.

Passives: Screech (+2 Attack), Dazzling (You may not be targeted by Priority moves that are being used out of turn order.), Strong Jaw (Your biting attacks deal +4 damage.), Wonder Skin (Your stats cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.)
Moves (Attack +6, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)
Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Aqua Jet - Melee Water Attack: At-Will 2d6. Aqua Jet has Priority.
Psychic Fangs - Melee Psychic Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, Psychic Fangs destroys all walls within melee range. Psychic Fangs can target walls.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 2, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet - Omnivore / Terravore, Habitat - Ocean Reefs
Proficiencies: Psychic / Water / Elemental Attack I / Fangs / Piscian

714

Bruxish dig holes into the sand in the waters of warm reefs. They bury themselves and leave only their knobby protuberances exposed. These growths emit low levels of psychokinetic energy that allow Bruxish to sense living things around them, functioning much like radars. When they detect prey, they unearth themselves and attack. Bruxish stun their victims with psychokinesis before using their hard teeth to grind away. Their teeth are strong enough to pulverize the shells and spikes of their prey. Their thick skin additionally keeps them safe from the latter, making them keystone predators in reefs as they regulate populations. When Bruxish emit psychic powers, their protuberances bloom and resemble flowers. Exposure to their abilities can cause headaches and eventually fainting. Bruxish grind their teeth when they use their powers. Other oceanic creatures and predators know to flee the area when they hear the sound of their grinding. Lifeguards let Bruxish remain in swimming areas for this reason.

Corsola 

Water / Rock - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Iron Defense (+2 Defense), Hustle (Your attacks against foes have -2 Accuracy. After the first time you miss an attack during an encounter, the -2 Accuracy penalty is removed and you gain +4 Attack until the end of the encounter.), Natural Cure (Whenever returned to a Poke Ball, you are cured of any afflictions.), Regenerator (When returned to a Poke Ball, you recover to Max HP after being stored for 1 hour.)

Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)

Recover - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP.
Ancient Power - Ranged(10ft) Rock Special Attack: 1/day 2d8. On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour.
Brine - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target is at less than half of their Max HP, Brine has 5d8 for damage instead.

Corsola are most well-known for their horns, which collectors prize as jewelry. Treated Corsola horns can refract light in the seven colors of the rainbow. Luckily, Corsola shed their horns periodically to grow new ones, giving collectors an ample supply of discarded horns to work with. This process can happen in as little as one to three nights. Corsola can only survive in pristine, warm waters. They migrate south as temperatures cools through the year. Corsola use their horns to filter water and obtain nutrients; in polluted or cold seas, their horns lose their color, become brittle, and disintegrate. Corsola live in colonies, shedding their horns to create natural reefs. Other Pokťmon often make their homes in these reefs. Corsola populations can be used as a water quality detector. If they begin to appear sickly, it is a sign that the water is dirty.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Water 3, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Phototroph, Habitat - Beaches / Ocean Reefs / Oceans
Proficiencies: Rock / Water / Elemental Attack I / Healer / Prickly

Evolution Shift compatible with Corsola (Dead Seas) family (312)
715

Dondozo 

Water - Huge (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 90 Defense: 12 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 7

Skills: Beached (needs to be in water), Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Fountain (can create water), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Oblivious (You are immune to Infatuation.), Water Veil (You are immune to being Burned.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +2)
Wave Crash- Melee Water Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal. Your Speed is +2 for 10 mins.
Heavy Slam - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. Heavy Slam can only target lighter targets.
Order Up - Ranged(30ft) Dragon Attack: 3/day 3d8. If you have a Tatsugiri in your mouth using its Commander passive, Order Up will additionally have an effect depending on the form of the Tatsugiri: [Curly] Your Attack is +2 for 10 mins, [Droopy] your Defense is +2 for 10 mins, or [Stretchy] your Speed is +2 for 10 mins.

Dondozo are massive Pokťmon that can be found in large lakes. Due to their great size, they are voracious eaters that are almost always hungry. Despite their strength, however, Dondozo are actually poor hunters. It is said that they are dull Pokťmon that have difficulty thinking for themselves. This is why Dondozo are almost always found partnered up with Tatsugiri, who make their homes within their mouths. In a mutualistic relationship, the Dondozo protect the Tatsugiri from large predators while the Tatsugiri command the Dondozo and aid them in capturing food. Dondozo will follow the orders of their Tatsugiri unerringly, even if they do not understand why they are doing what they are doing. Dondozo without Tatsugiri are essentially unable to feed themselves, and will eventually starve if they cannot find a Tatsugiri to partner with.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 2, Egg Hatch Rate - 20 Days, Diet - Carnivore, Habitat - Lakes / Rivers
Proficiencies: Ice / Water / Piscian / Stampeding

Lapras are intelligent, gentle Pokťmon. They are wellknown for their willingness to ferry people, Pokťmon, and goods on their backs across bodies of water. However, due to their gentle dispositions, they also rarely fight. Lapras is rare and near extinction, with the few remaining being spread across the vast oceans. When in good moods, Lapras will sing beautiful, enchanting melodies that are said to calm rough seas. Lone Lapras will sing plaintive songs, calling out to any other Lapras that may be nearby. Though they live in cold seas, they migrate to warmer ones to raise their young; even in these tropical areas, a slight cold continues to radiate from their skin. Rumors of freshwater Lapras have also surfaced from time to time. Lapras are happiest in pods, as they enjoy being in groups. Conservation efforts have helped to restore Lapras populations all over the world.

716

Lapras 

Water / Ice - Large (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 78 Defense: 9 Special Defense: 10

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 9

Skills: Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Fountain (can create water), Freezer (can create ice), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Growl (+1 Defense), Hydration (While in Raining weather, you are cured of any afflictions.), Shell Armor (Critical hits are treated as normal hits against you.), Water Absorb (When you are hit by a water-type attack, halve the damage, then you heal that much HP instead of taking damage.)

Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)

Sing - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Sing has -8 during Accuracy Check. On hit, all targets fall Asleep.
Ice Beam - Ranged(20ft beam) Ice Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.
Brine - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target is at less than half of their Max HP, Brine has 5d8 for damage instead.

Luvdisc live in the shallows of tropical seas. They swim in large schools near reefs, nesting in branches, reefs, and other sunken debris. During nesting season, the water appears a vivid pink as thousands of Luvdisc school together beneath the waves. They are famous for their heart-shaped bodies, spawning a variety of legends around them pertaining to love and affection. Luvdisc have a curious habit of congregating near couples out at sea, tailing them all the way back to shore. During nesting season, pairs of Luvdisc can often be seen kissing as part of a complex mating ritual that bond them together for life. Lone Luvdisc who cannot find a partner despairingly float near the surface, where they become easy prey for flying predators.

Biology: Egg Group - Monster / Water 1, Egg Hatch Rate 25 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Oceans / Polar
Proficiencies: Ice / Water / Elemental Attack E / Horned / Sound

This Pokťmon has a Gigantamax form in PHB2. 717

Luvdisc 

Pyukumuku 

Water - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Water - Small (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 24 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Hit Points: 36 Defense: 14 Special Defense: 13

Speed: 12 (60 ft.) Attack: 3

Special Attack: 4

Speed: 1 (5 ft.) Attack: 6

Special Attack: 3

Skills: Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Fountain (can create water), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Skills: Fountain (can create water), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Reach (melee range is 15 ft.), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Agility (+2 Speed), Charm (+1 Defense), Hydration (While in Raining weather, you are cured of any afflictions.), Swift Swim (While in Raining weather or in water, your Speed is +2.)
Moves (Attack +1, Special Attack +2, Effect +6)
Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Draining Kiss - Melee Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Sweet Kiss - Melee Fairy Effect: 3/day. Sweet Kiss has -4 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.
Biology: Egg Group - Water 2, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Ocean Reefs / Oceans

Passives: Harden (+1 Defense), Innards Out (When you are knocked out by a melee attack, deal damage to the attacker equal to the damage you just took.)
Moves (Attack +3, Special Attack +1, Effect +0)
Taunt - Ranged(20ft) Dark Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target may only use attacks that target you or your allies for 1 min.
Recover - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP.
Toxic - Melee Poison Effect: 1/day. Toxic has -3 during Accuracy Check, unless you are Poison type. On hit, the target is Toxified.

Proficiencies: Fairy / Water / Cutesy / Elemental Attack I

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Water 3, Egg Hatch Rate - 7 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Beaches / Ocean Floors

Proficiencies: Poison / Water / Prickly / ***Pyukumuku is not proficient with moves that use the attack or special attack stats

718

Qwilfish 

Water / Poison - Small (Size), Light (Weight)

Hit Points: 42 Defense: 10 Special Defense: 6

Speed: 9 (45 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 6

Skills: Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Fountain (can create water), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Inflatable (can expand), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Intimidate (+1 Defense), Poison Point (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Poison the attacker.), Swift Swim (While in Raining weather or in water, your Speed is +2.)

Though Pyukumuku usually dwell in shallow seas, they often make their way onto shores as well. These stalwart creatures will not budge once they find a favored spot; they would first starve or dehydrate before moving. They are covered in viscous mucus that can keep them moist for a week on land. Pyukumuku eat detritus found in their immediate vicinities, ejecting their guts to engulf and digest their meals. Compassionate beachgoers will throw starving Pyukumuku back into the sea so they do not starve, though they will inevitably return. Their guts form the shape of a flexible hand and are shot out to deliver powerful punches. Beachgoers must be wary of stepping on these small creatures for this reason.

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +3, Effect +4)
Poison Sting - Melee Poison Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.
Toxic Spikes - Ranged(20ft burst) Poison Effect: 3/day. Place the Toxic Spikes Hazard in the area surrounding you. Toxic Spikes Hazard has the following ability: When a foe moves through Toxic Spikes Hazard during their turn and are on the ground, they are Poisoned. If the Toxic Spikes Hazard has multiple layers, it will Toxify foes instead of Poisoning them instead. This Hazard disappears after 2 mins.

Brine - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target is at less than half of their Max HP, Brine has 5d8 for damage instead.

Biology: Egg Group - Water 2, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Ocean
Proficiencies: Poison / Water / Elemental Attack I / Piscian / Prickly

Qwilfish swim in the open ocean, far away from the shore. They are extremely poisonous; anything pierced by their sharp spines will be injected with paralyzing toxins. These spikes are in fact specialized scales, which hardened and became sharper over time. To defend themselves, Qwilfish quickly swallow large amounts of water and inflate themselves to up to twice their original sizes, hoping to match their foes in stature. In this state, they can launch the spikes off of their bodies to spear and inject enemies with their toxins. While inflated, however, Qwilfish experience much trouble swimming; though they are already not very good swimmers when deflated, they often will fail to move at all when fully inflated, simply floating along in the ocean currents until they expel all of their water. Qwilfish are territorial and will engage in inflation contests to see who can grow the largest. Generally, individuals float away in currents before winners can be determined.

Evolution Shift compatible with Qwilfish (Dark Waters) family (162)

719

Relicanth 

Water / Rock - Medium (Size), Medium (Weight)

Hit Points: 60 Defense: 14 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 6 (30 ft.) Attack: 9

Special Attack: 5

Skills: Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Fountain (can create water), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)

Relicanth are an unbelievably ancient species, long believed to be extinct until one was accidentally rediscovered on a deep-sea voyage decades ago. Fossil records show that they have been around for at least one-hundred million years making them concurrent with Pokťmon that have recently been reanimated by modern fossil technologies, and have miraculously remained essentially unchanged since then, as they have adapted to fit their ecological niche quite well. They lack teeth, instead filterfeeding on microscopic organisms. Their scales are as hard as rocks, with a texture similar to craggy boulders. Their bodies are dense and packed with fat, allowing them to survive the immense pressure of the deep. Relicanth have the odd tendency to walk on the sea floor by using their pectoral fins as legs. They are nocturnal Pokťmon, spending most of the day in underwater caves where the water is cooler so that they expend less energy regulating their body heat. At night, they emerge to filter-feed. Though rather slow, Relicanth are more than capable of defending itself when threatened.

Passives: Harden (+1 Defense), Rock Head (Your attacks that damage yourself on hit do not damage yourself.), Sturdy (If you would be brought from Max HP to 0 or below, you are instead brought to 1 HP.), Swift Swim (While in Raining weather or in water, your Speed is +2.)
Moves (Attack +4, Special Attack +2, Effect +3)
Ancient Power - Ranged(10ft) Rock Special Attack: 1/day 2d8. On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour.
Yawn - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target falls Asleep after its next turn.
Double Edge - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.
Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Water 2, Egg Hatch Rate - 25 Days, Diet - Omnivore, Habitat - Caves / Ocean Abyss
Proficiencies: Rock / Water / Elemental Attack I / Fangs / Piscian

720

Veluza 

Water / Psychic - Large (Size), Heavy (Weight)

Hit Points: 54 Defense: 7 Special Defense: 7

Speed: 7 (35 ft.) Attack: 10

Special Attack: 8

Skills: Gilled (can breathe underwater), Hover (can hover), Swimmer (can swim)

Passives: Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20), Mold Breaker (Your attacks ignore any passives that would redirect, negate or weaken your attacks.), Sharpness (Your slashing attacks deal +4 damage.)

Moves (Attack +5, Special Attack +4, Effect +3)

Fillet Away - Self Normal Effect: 3/day. You lose HP equal to half of your Max HP, then your Attack, Special Attack and Speed are +2 for 10 mins.
Psycho Cut - Ranged(20ft) Psychic Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Psycho Cut is a critical hit.

Veluza dwell in large bodies of water, including both lakes and seas. They are known for their great agility, which they use to chase down prey with ease. Veluza also possess psychic abilities that they use to aid in their hunts. Their most bizarre tactic, however, involves shedding away excess flesh in order to become lighter and thus even faster. Veluza keep fillets of their flesh tethered to themselves

Aqua Cutter - Melee Water Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Aqua Cutter is a critical hit.

with psychokinesis; when the time is right, they release them to gain sudden bursts of speed. Because they possess incredible regenerative capabilities, the lost flesh grows back within the day. This costs them quite a lot of

energy, however, so it is important that they are successful

Biology: Egg Group - Water 1 / Water 2, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 in catching their prey once they shed. Though few preda-

Days, Diet - Carnivore, Habitat - Lakes / Oceans

tors can catch Veluza, these Pokťmon will also shed flesh to

Proficiencies: Psychic / Water / Elemental Attack I / Piscian pacify attackers if cornered. Veluza fillets are delicate in flavor, but are said to be quite tasty. They can be enjoyed

both raw and cooked.

721

Wishiwashi (Single form) 

Water - Tiny (Size), Featherweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 3 Special Defense: 4

Speed: 4 (20 ft.) Attack: 2

Special Attack: 3

Wishiwashi (School form)

Water - Gigantic (Size), Superweight (Weight)

Hit Points: 30 Defense: 14 Special Defense: 15

Speed: 3 (15 ft.) Attack: 14

Special Attack: 14

Skills: Flopper (treats dry land as special terrain), Fountain (can create water), Gilled (can breathe underwater), Swimmer (can swim)
Passives: Tearful Look (+1 Defense, +1 Special Defense), Schooling (When Wishiwashi is at half its HP or higher, it is in its School form. In its School form, Wishiwashi summons hundreds of fish-shaped balls of water and surrounds itself making it appear larger and making it stronger. When Wishiwashi is below half of its max hit points, Wishiwashi is in its Single form, dropping its faÁade and appearing much smaller on its own.)
Moves (Attack +1/+7, Special Attack +1/+7, Effect +2/+1)
Aqua Ring - Self Water Effect: 1/day. Put a Ring Coat on yourself. The Coat has the following ability: At the beginning of your turn, recover 1d10 HP. This Coat lasts for 1 min. If it's raining, the Coat lasts for 2 mins.
Aqua Tail - Melee Water Attack: 1/day 3d12.
Take Down - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.
Biology: Egg Group - Water 2, Egg Hatch Rate - 10 Days, Diet - Herbivore, Habitat - Ocean Reefs / Ocean

Wild Wishiwashi are small, defenseless Pokťmon on their own. Because they are so easy to catch and are notably tasty, they are popular prey for many marine Pokťmon. However, predators must act fast to catch these frail creatures. If they fail to take one by surprise, they must cut their losses and flee. When Wishiwashi sense danger, their eyes will begin to water; the wobbling tears glisten in the light and signal to other nearby Wishiwashi that it is time to group up. Schooled together, these monstrous School Form Wishiwashi are feared even by apex predators like Gyarados. When each Wishiwashi in a school lets loose a burst of water, the combined attack is stronger than cannon fire. Wishiwashi cannot eat or sleep properly in their School Forms, however, so they cannot remain in these states indefinitely. Schools will seek secluded areas of the sea away from predators to safely disperse in before returning to their normal lives. If a School Form Wishiwashi is sufficiently damaged or loses enough members, its uniquely synchronous cooperation deteriorates, and it begins to behave more like a normal school of fish. When on their own on land, trained Wishiwashi can summon orbs of water shaped like other Wishiwashi to create a faÁade of their School Form and boosting their power as if they were with hundreds of Wishiwashi in the wild.

Proficiencies: Water / Piscian / Stampeding

722

Passives
In addition to their skills that affect how a Pokťmon interacts with the world, Pokťmon also have passives that affect their stats, their attacks, or sometimes change them into different forms in special situations. Passives are split into two groups: Stat Passives and Ability Passives. Ability Passives have no real limitations on them, where Stat Passives have several rules.
A Pokťmon cannot have more than three Stat Passives at a time and they can't have more than one Stat Passive from the same category. If a Pokťmon acquires a new Stat Passive that breaks one of these two restrictions, the new Stat Passive replaces another existing Stat Passive. When it does, remember to undo the stat changes to the Pokťmon before applying the new Stat Passive.

In the Pokťdex, stat passives are already added to each Pokťmon's stats.

Special Attack Stat Passives

Metal Sound Nasty Plot Fake Tears Tail Glow

(+1 Special Attack) (+1 Special Attack) (+2 Special Attack) (+3 Special Attack)

Special Defense Stat Passives

Confide Amnesia Captivate Eerie Impulse

(+1 Special Defense) (+2 Special Defense) (+2 Special Defense) (+2 Special Defense)

Stat Passive Categories

Attack Stat Passives

Gorilla Tactics Howl Leer Meditate Moxie Sharpen Tail Whip Hone Claws Screech Swords Dance Huge Power Pure Power

(+1 Attack) (+1 Attack) (+1 Attack) (+1 Attack) (+1 Attack) (+1 Attack) (+1 Attack) (+2 Attack) (+2 Attack) (+2 Attack) (+6 Attack) (+6 Attack)

Defense Stat Passives

Baby-Doll Eyes (+1 Defense)

Charm

(+1 Defense)

Defense Curl (+1 Defense)

Growl

(+1 Defense)

Harden

(+1 Defense)

Intimidate

(+1 Defense)

Play Nice

(+1 Defense)

Withdraw

(+1 Defense)

Acid Armor (+2 Defense)

Barrier

(+2 Defense)

Feather Dance (+2 Defense)

Iron Defense (+2 Defense)

Stamina

(+2 Defense)

Cotton Guard (+3 Defense)

Shelter

(+3 Defense)

Speed Stat Passives

Gooey Run Away Tangling Hair Agility Autotomize Cotton Spore Rock Polish Scary Face Speed Boost String Shot Tailwind

(+1 Speed) (+1 Speed) (+1 Speed) (+2 Speed) (+2 Speed) (+2 Speed) (+2 Speed) (+2 Speed) (+2 Speed) (+2 Speed) (+2 Speed)

Mix Stat Passives

Bulk Up

(+1 Attack, +1 Defense)

Calm Mind

(+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense)

Coil

(+2 Attack, +1 Defense)

Cosmic Power (+1 Defense, +1 Special Defense)

Dragon Dance (+1 Attack, +1 Speed)

Growth

(+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack)

Majesty's Order (+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack, +1 Defense,

+1 Special Defense) ***Vespiquen only

Quiver Dance (+1 Special Attack, +1 Special Defense,

+1 Speed)

Rototiller

(+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack)

Shift Gear

(+1 Attack, +2 Speed)

Tearful Look (+1 Defense, +1 Special Defense)

Tickle

(+1 Attack, +1 Defense)

Work Up

(+1 Attack, +1 Special Attack)

Critical Hit Stat Passives Focus Energy (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20) Super Luck (Attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20

Passives

723

Ability Passive List

Compound Eyes (Add +1 during accuracy check whenever you use a ranged attack.)

Corrosion (You can Poison and Toxify Steel-types and Poison-

Adaptability (Moves that are the same type as you deal +4 types.)

damage.)

Costar (At the start of combat, copy a stat passive from your

Aerilate (Normal-type moves performed by you are treated as nearest ally until the end of combat.)

Flying-type moves.)

Cud Chew (When you consume a berry, its effect will activate

Aftermath (When knocked out by a melee attack, the attacker a second time 1 round of combat later.)

loses 1d20 HP.)

Curious Medicine (Your stats and your adjacent ally's stats

Analytic (When attacking a foe who has already acted this

cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.)

round, deal +4 damage.)

Cursed Body (When you are hit by a foe's melee attack, disa-

Anger Point (When hit by a critical hit, raise Attack +6 for 10 ble that attack for 10 mins. Cursed Body can only affect one

mins.)

attack at a time.)

Anger Shell (While you are below 20 HP, your attacks deal +4 Cute Charm (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll

damage.)

1d4. On 4, Infatuate the attacker.)

Armor Tail (You are immune to priority attacks that are used Damp (Chloroblast, Explosion, Misty Explosion, and Self-

out of turn order during combat.)

Destruct fail to do anything if used within 40ft of you.)

Aroma Veil (You and your allies within 10ft of you are immune to the effects of the moves Heal Block, Taunt, Encore, and Disable and the passive Cursed Body.)
Battery (Allies within 15 ft of you have +1 Special Attack.)

Dazzling (You may not be targeted by Priority moves that are being used out of turn order.)
Defeatist (When your HP is below half of your max hit points, your stats are all -2.)

Battle Armor (Critical hits are treated as normal hits against Defiant (If a foe lowers any of your stats, you have +2 Attack

you.)

until your lowered stats are returned to normal.)

Berserk (While below half HP, you have +2 Special Attack.)
Big Pecks (Your Defense cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.)
Blaze (When you are below 20 HP, your Fire type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Disguise (The first time you are hit with an attack each encounter, the attack is negated.)
Download (Your Attack is +1 against targets with lower Defense than Special Defense. Your Special Attack is +1 against targets with lower Special Defense than Defense.)

Cheek Pouch (Whenever you consume a berry, you recover 10 HP in addition to any other effects.)

Drizzle (As a free action you may deplete one use of Rain Dance and use Rain Dance.)

Chlorophyll (While in Sunny Weather, your Speed is +2.) Clear Body (Your stats cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.)

Drought (As a free action you may deplete one use of Sunny Day and use Sunny Day.)

Cloud Nine (As a free action you may deplete one use of Defog and use Defog.)
Color Change (Whenever you are attacked, your type is changed to the same type as the attack after taking damage and effects for 5 mins.)

Dry Skin (In sunny weather, you lose 4 HP at the end of your actions. In rainy weather, you recover 4 HP at the end of your actions. You are immune to Water-type attacks.)
Early Bird (You roll twice during checks to wake from Sleep and use the higher result.)

Comatose (You are always Asleep but can still act as if you aren't. You are also immune to other afflictions.)
Commander (When adjacent to an allied Dondozo, Tatsugiri can go into Dondozo's mouth as a free action. While inside the allied Dondozo's mouth, Tatsugiri cannot act and its Skills and Passives cannot be used, but the allied Dondozo has +2 to its

Earth Eater (When you are hit by a Ground-type attack, halve the damage, then you heal that much HP instead of taking damage.)
Effect Spore (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, randomly either Paralyze, Poison, or put to Sleep the attacker.)

Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed.

Electric Surge (As a free action you may deplete one use of

Additionally, Tatsugiri cannot be targeted or hit by any attacks, Electric Terrain and use Electric Terrain.)

is unaffected by the effects of any moves, and allows the allied Dondozo to use any of Tatsugiri's moves.)
Competitive (If a foe lowers any of your stats, you have +2

Electromorphosis (When hit by an attack that deals damage, you may use the move Charge as a free action)

Special Attack until your lowered stats are returned to normal.)

Passives

724

Emergency Exit (You cannot fight when first damaged below Grassy Surge (As a free action you may deplete one use of half of Max HP. You will want to run away or return to a Poke Grassy Terrain and use Grassy Terrain.)

Ball for 2 rounds. During those two rounds, your speed is doubled.)

Guard Dog (If a foe's effect would cause you to flee or be moved, instead your Attack is raised +1 for 10 mins.)

Exposed (When you move or use an attack, you have ≠8 Defense and ≠8 Special Defense until your next turn. You also deal ≠8 damage with all attacks.)
Filter (Super-effective attacks against you deal ≠4 damage after applying weakness.)

Gulp Missile (Whenever Cramorant goes underwater, it gathers waste in its mouth. When hit by an attack within 30ft while Cramorant has waste, Cramorant ejects the waste at the offender, dealing 4 damage or 8 damage if Cramorant has less than 20 HP . Waste is held for up to 5 mins.)

Flame Body (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll Guts (While afflicted, your Attack is +2.)

1d4. On 4, Burn the attacker.)

Harvest (When using a Berry, you only use half of it while still

Flare Boost (While Burned, your Special Attack is +4.)

gaining its full effects. You can only use half of a Berry if you have Harvest.)

Flash Fire (You are immune to Fire-type attacks. If you would

be hit by a Fire-type attack, your Fire type attacks deal +4 dam- Healer (After acting, you may roll 1d20. On 16 or higher, any

age for 2 mins.)

adjacent allies are cured of all afflictions.)

Flower Gift (While Cherrim is in Sunny Weather, Cherrim's Attack and Special Defense is +6.)
Flower Veil (You and your allied Grass-type's stats cannot be lowered by effects within 25ft of you.)

Heatproof (Fire-type attacks are resisted by you. If you are already resistant to Fire-type, remove an additional damage die.)
Hospitality (1/day, the first time you move adjacent to an ally per encounter, they are healed 12 HP.)

Hunger Switch (Whenever Morpeko acts, it changes from Full Belly mode to Hangry mode or back into Full Belly mode from Hangry mode. Aura Wheel is Electric-type in Full Belly mode, Aura Wheel is Dark-type in Hangry mode.)

Hustle (Your attacks against foes have -2 Accuracy. After the first time you miss an attack during an encounter, the -2 Accuracy penalty is removed and you gain +4 Attack until the end of the encounter.)

Hydration (While in Raining weather, you are cured of any afflictions.)

Hyper Cutter (Your Attack cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.)

Fluffy (If hit by a melee attack, you only take half the damage. If hit by a Fire-type attack, you take twice the damage.)
Forecast (Your appearance and type changes with the weather. In Hailing, Hazy, or Misty weather, Castform is Ice-type. In Raining weather, Castform is Water-type. In Sandstorming weather, Castform is Rock-type. In Sunny weather, Castform is Fire-type.)
Friend Guard (Allies within 25ft of you take -1d4 damage when attacked.)
Fur Coat (If hit by a move using the Attack stat, you only take half the damage you would take.)
Gale Wings (If you use a Flying Type Move during your turn, your Speed is +2 until the end of your next turn.)
Galvanize (Normal-type moves performed by you are treated as Electric-type moves.)
Good as Gold (You are immune to Effect moves).

Ice Body (If in Hailing weather, you recover 4 HP after you act and you don't take damage from Hailing weather.)
Ice Face (The first time Eiscue is hit with a melee attack each encounter; the attack is negated and you change to No Ice Face Form. Ice Face is reset whenever it starts Hailing while you are within its area of effect.)
Ice Scales (If hit by a Special Attack, you only take half the damage you would take.)
Illusion (As a free action, you may change your appearance to look like any Pokťmon you have interacted with within the past hour. You may not appear as a Pokťmon more than twice your size and the illusion is dropped when you are hit by an attack.)
Immunity (You are immune to getting Poisoned and Toxified.)
Imposter (As a free action you may use Transform.)
Infiltrator (Hindering terrain and Walls do not affect you or your attacks.)

Grass Pelt (While in Grassy Terrain, your Defense is +2.)

Passives

725

Innards Out (When you are knocked out by a melee attack, deal damage to the attacker equal to the damage you just took.)
Inner Focus (You are immune to being Stunned.)
Insomnia (You are immune to being put to Sleep.)
Iron Barbs (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, the attacker takes 4 damage.)
Iron Fist (Your punching attacks deal +4 damage.)
Justified (When a foe hits you with a Dark-type attack, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.)
Keen Eye (Your accuracy checks cannot be negatively affected by foes.)
Leaf Guard (While in sunny weather, you are cured of any afflictions.)
Levitate (You are immune to Ground-type moves while you are airborne.)

Magician (When hitting with a melee attack, you steal the target's held item, if any.)
Magma Armor (You are immune to being Frozen.)
Marvel Scale (While afflicted, your Defense is +2.)
Mega Launcher (Your pulse attacks deal +4 damage.)
Merciless (On hit, your attacks are critical hits if the target is Poisoned or Toxified.)
Mimicry (After acting, your type changes to reflect your current surroundings. If you are in a grassy field, Grass type; if you are in water, Water type; if you are on a mountain, Rock type; etc.)
Minus (If at least one ally has Plus or Minus within 10ft of you, you have +3 Special Attack.)
Mirror Armor (If your stats would be lowered by a foe's effects, instead that offender's stat is lowered.)
Misty Surge (As a free action you may deplete one use of Misty Terrain and use Misty Terrain.)

Mold Breaker (Your attacks ignore any passives that would redirect, negate or weaken your attacks.)

Motor Drive (Any Electric-type attack that hits you is negated and your speed is +1 for 10 mins. This can stack.)

Multiscale (When you are at Max HP, you take ≠4 damage from all attacks.)

Mummy (When you are hit by a foe's melee attack, disable all of the foe's ability passives, then they gain Mummy for 10 mins.)

Libero (You may change your types to the same types as an attack you are making while making it for 10 mins.)

Mycelium Might (When using an attack that can cause afflictions, ignore any immunities that foes may have when applying the affliction.)

Lightning Rod (Any foe's ranged Electric-type attacks within 25ft or any adjacent foe's Electric-type attacks are negated and drawn to you. Your Special Attack is +2 until the end of your next turn whenever you negate an Electric-type attack.)
Limber (You are immune to being Paralyzed.)
Lingering Aroma (When you are hit by a foe's melee attack, disable all of the foe's ability passives, then they gain Lingering Aroma for 10 mins.)
Liquid Ooze (If you are hit by an attack that damages you and heals the attacker, the attacker is dealt damage equal to what they would have healed, instead of healing.)

Natural Cure (Whenever returned to a Poke Ball, you are cured of any afflictions.)
Neutralizing Gas (Ability passives other than your own do not work within 10ft of you.)
No Guard (You cannot miss your attacks, and attacks made against you cannot miss.)
Normalize (Attacks performed by you are treated as Normaltype attacks.)
Oblivious (You are immune to Infatuation.)
Overcoat (You are immune to damage from weather.)

Liquid Voice (Sound-based moves made by you are Watertype.)

Overgrow (When you are below 20 HP, your Grass-type attacks deal +4 damage)

Magic Bounce (If you are hit by an attack that does not deal damage, the attacker is instead affected by the effects of their own attack.)
Magic Guard (Foes can only deal damage to you with attacks that deal damage. You are unaffected by damage from afflictions, coats, hazards, weather or any passives given by foes.)

Own Tempo (You are immune to being Confused.)
Pastel Veil (You and your allies within 10ft of you are immune to being Poisoned or Toxified.)

Passives

726

Perish Body (When you are hit by a melee attack, the offend- Purifying Salt (You are immune to status afflictions. You are

er receives 3 Perish Coats. The Coat has the following ability: resistant to Ghost-type attacks.)

After acting, destroy one of your Perish Coats. If this is the third Perish Coat you've destroyed this way during this encounter, set your HP to 0.)

Queenly Majesty (You may not be targeted by Priority moves that are being used out of turn order.)

Pickpocket (When you are hit by a melee attack, you steal the Quick Draw (1/day, you may give one of your moves priority.)

offender's held item, if any.)

Quick Feet (While afflicted, your Speed is +2.)

Pixilate (Normal-type moves performed by you are treated as Rain Dish (If in Raining Weather, you regain 4 HP after you

Fairy-type moves.)

act.)

Plus (If at least one ally has Plus or Minus within 10ft of you, Rattled (When a foe hits you with a Bug-type, Ghost-type, or

you have +3 Special Attack.)

Dark-type attack, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins. This can stack.)

Receiver (When an ally is knocked out within 10ft of you, you gain one of your ally's passives for 2 mins.)

Reckless (Your attacks that damage yourself on hit, deal +4 damage.)

Refrigerate (Normal-type moves performed by you are treated as Ice-type moves.)

Regenerator (When returned to a Poke Ball, you recover to Max HP after being stored for 1 hour.)

Ripen (When you use a Berry, double any effects it has.)

Rock Head (Your attacks that damage yourself on hit do not damage yourself.)

Rocky Payload (Your Rock-type attacks deal +4 damage.)

Rough Skin (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, the

Poison Heal (While afflicted with Poison or Toxification, you attacker takes 4 damage.)

are healed instead of damaged by those afflictions. You are cured of Poison or Toxin once you are at Max HP.)

Sand Force (While in Sandstorming Weather, your Rock-type and Ground-type attacks deal +4 damage and you don't take

Poison Point (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll damage from Sandstorming weather.)

1d4. On 4, Poison the attacker.) Poison Touch (Whenever you hit with a melee attack, you

Sand Rush (While in Sandstorming Weather, your Speed is +2 and you don't take damage from Sandstorming weather.)

may roll 1d6. On 6, Poison the target.)

Sand Spit (When you are hit by a melee attack, as a free ac-

Power of Alchemy (When an ally is knocked out within 10ft of you, you gain one of your ally's passives for 2 mins.)

tion you may deplete one use of Sandstorm and use Sandstorm immediately.)

Power Spot (Attacks made within 10ft of you deal +4 damage,

Sand Stream (As a free action you may deplete one use of Sandstorm and use Sandstorm.)

regardless if the attacker is friend or foe.)

Sand Veil (While in Sandstorming Weather, any foe's attacks

Prankster (Your attacks that do not deal damage on hit have made against you have -1 during accuracy check and you don't

Priority.)

take damage from Sandstorming weather.)

Pressure (If you are hit by a 3/day attack, the attacker can't use that attack for the remainder of the day.)

Sap Sipper (You are immune to Grass-type attacks. If you would be hit by a Grass-type attack, your Attack is +2 for 10

Propeller Tail (Your attacks cannot be redirected by passives mins.)

or any other effect (except by interception), instead only hitting a target your attack was directed at.)
Protean (You may change your types to the same type as an attack you are making while making it for 10 mins.)
Psychic Surge (As a free action you may deplete one use of Psychic Terrain and use Psychic Terrain.)

Schooling (When Wishiwashi is at half its HP or higher, it is in its School form. In its School form, Wishiwashi summons hundreds of fish-shaped balls of water and surrounds itself making it appear larger and making it stronger. When Wishiwashi is below half of its max hit points, Wishiwashi is in its Single form, dropping its faÁade and appearing much smaller on its own.)

Punk Rock (Your sound-based attacks deal +4 damage. You Scrappy (Your Normal-type and Fighting-type attacks can hit

take 4 less damage from sound-based attacks.)

Ghost-type targets.)

Passives

727

Soundproof (You are immune to sound-based attacks.)

**Sound based attacks: Boomburst, Bug Buzz, Chatter, Clanging Scales, Disarming Voice, Echoed Voice, Eerie Spell, Grass Whistle, Hyper Voice, Overdrive, Perish Song, Roar, Round, Sing, Snore, Sparkling Aria, Supersonic, Uproar

Stakeout (When you attack a target who has just joined the encounter since your last turn, you deal +4 damage.)

Stalwart (Your attacks cannot be redirected by passives or any other effect (except by interception), instead only hitting a target your attack was directed at.)

Stance Change (Aegislash has two forms it constantly changes between. When you attack a foe, before making your accu-

racy check change into your Sword Form. When using a reac-

Screen Cleaner (Whenever you move through a Wall, Hazard, or adjacent to someone with a Coat, destroy all Walls, Hazards and Coats.)

tion move such as King's Shield or Protect, or a protective move like Safeguard or Light Screen, immediately change to Shield Form.)

Seed Sower (When you are hit by an attack that dealt damage, as a free action you may deplete one use of Grassy Terrain

Static (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Paralyze the attacker.)

and use Grassy Terrain immediately.)

Steadfast (When you are Stunned, your Speed is +1 for 10

Sharpness (Your slashing attacks deal +4 damage.)

mins.)

Shed Skin (After acting, you may roll 1d4. On 4, you are cured Steam Engine (When a foe hits you with a Fire-type or Water-

of any afflictions.)

type attack, your Speed is +2 for 10 mins.)

Sheer Force (Your attacks that have additional effects that

Steelworker (Your Steel-type attacks deal +4 damage.)

affect the target may deal +4 damage, but will not have those Steely Spirit (Steel-type attacks used within 10ft of you by

additional effects.)

yourself or allies deal +4 damage.)

Shell Armor (Critical hits are treated as normal hits against you.)

Stench (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, roll 1d4. On 4, Stun the attacker.)

Shields Down (When Minior's HP is at or below half of its max Sticky Hold (You cannot drop held items or have held items

hit points, its form changes to Core Revealed. While Minior is stolen from you.)

not in its Core Revealed form, it is immune to afflictions.)

Storm Drain (Any foe's ranged Water-type attacks within 25ft

Shield Dust (You are unaffected by additional effects from or any adjacent foe's Water-type attacks are negated and

attacks that deal damage.)

drawn to you. Your Special Attack is +2 until the end of your

Skill Link (Your scatter moves have +2 during Accuracy

next turn whenever you negate a Water-type attack.)

Check.)

Strong Jaw (Your biting attacks deal +4 damage.)

Slush Rush (While in Hailing weather, your Speed is +2 and you don't take damage from Hailing weather.)

Sturdy (If you would be brought from Max HP to 0 or below, you are instead brought to 1 HP.)

Sniper (When you land a critical hit, you deal an additional 8 damage.)
Snow Cloak (While in Hailing weather, any foe's attacks made against you have -1 during Accuracy Check and you don't take damage from Hailing weather.)
Snow Warning (As a free action you may deplete one use of Hail and use Hail.)

Suction Cups (You cannot be moved by a foe's attacks.)
Supreme Overlord (When you join combat, your Attack and Special Attack are each raised +1 for each ally who has already been knocked out in the current encounter, for 10 mins. Supreme Overlord can only raise your Attack and Special Attack each up to +4.)
Surge Surfer (While in Electrified terrain, your Speed is +2.)

Solar Power (While in Sunny weather, you deal an additional 4 damage while attacking. After acting in Sunny weather, you take 4 damage.)
Solid Rock (Super-effective attacks against you deal ≠4 damage.)

Swarm (When you are below 20 HP, your Bug-type attacks deal +4 damage)
Sweet Veil (You and your allies within 10ft of you are immune to being put to Sleep.)
Swift Swim (While in Raining weather or in water, your Speed is +2.)

Passives

728

Symbiosis (You can pass held items to allies within 10ft as a Weak Armor (When you are hit by a melee attack, your De-

free action.)

fense is -3 and your Speed is +3 for 10 mins.)

Synchronize (When you are Burned, Confused, Frozen, Poi- Well-Baked Body (You are immune to Fire-type attacks.

soned, Paralyzed, put to Sleep, or Toxified by a foe, the offend- When you are hit by Fire-type attacks, instead your Defense is

er is also given the same affliction.)

+2 for 10 mins.)

Tangled Feet (While you are confused, any foe's attacks made White Smoke (Your stats cannot be lowered by a foe's

against you have -1 during accuracy check.)

effects.)

Technician (When rolling damage, replace any rolled 1s or 2s Wind Power (When hit by a wind based attack, you may use

with 3.)

the move Charge as a free action)

Telepathy (Your allies within 25ft do not harm you when the ally is using attacks that have an area of effect.)
Thermal Exchange (You are immune to being Burned. When you are hit by a Fire-type attack, your Attack is +2 for 10 mins.)
Thick Fat (You take -4 damage from Fire-type attacks and Icetype attacks.)
Tinted Lens (Your resisted attacks deal +4 damage.)

**Wind based attacks: Air Cutter, Blizzard, Fairy Wind, Gust, Heat Wave, Hurricane, Icy Wind, Petal Blizzard, Twister, Whirlwind
Wind Rider (When hit by a wind based attack, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.)
**Wind based attacks: Air Cutter, Blizzard, Fairy Wind, Gust, Heat Wave, Hurricane, Icy Wind, Petal Blizzard, Twister, Whirlwind

Too Pure (All attacks made against you are treated as if they Wonder Guard (Shedinja is immune to attacks that are not

are super-effective. If the attack already is, the attacker rolls +1 super-effective. Wonder Guard cannot be removed, ignored, or

dice while rolling for damage.)

disabled by any means.)

Torrent (When you are below 20 HP, your Water-type attacks deal +4 damage)
Tough Claws (Your slashing attacks deal +4 damage.)

Wonder Skin (Your stats cannot be lowered by a foe's effects.)
Zen Mode (Darmanitan changes to its Zen Mode when it is at or below half of its max HP.)

Toxic Boost (If you would have been Poisoned, or Toxified, you are not and your Attack is +2 for 2 mins.)
Toxic Debris (When you are hit by an attack that dealt damage, as a free action you may deplete one use of Toxic Spikes and use Toxic Spikes immediately.)

Zero to Hero (When Palafin is reduced to 30 or less HP or if an ally is knocked out within 30ft of Palafin, you change from your Zero form to your Hero form for 10 mins.)

Triage (Any moves you know that can heal have Reaction.)

Truant (All your moves have recharge turns. Truant cannot be removed, ignored, or disabled by any means.)

Unnerve (Foes within 25ft of you cannot consume food.)

Vital Spirit (You are immune to being put to Sleep.)

Volt Absorb (When you are hit by an electric-type attack, halve the damage, then you heal that much HP instead of taking damage.)

Wandering Spirit (Whenever you are hit with a melee attack, you gain all of the offender's ability passives and lose Wandering Spirit, then they gain Wandering Spirit and lose all of their ability Passives for 10 mins.)

Water Absorb (When you are hit by a water-type attack, halve the damage, then you heal that much HP instead of taking damage.)

Water Bubble (You take -4 damage from Fire-type attacks. You add +4 damage to Water-type attacks. You are immune to being Burned.)

Passives

Water Compaction (When a foe hits you with a Water-type attack, your Defense is +2 for 10 mins.)

Water Veil (You are immune to being Burned.)

729

Moves

Aqua Ring - Self Water Effect: 1/day. Put a Ring Coat on yourself. The Coat has the following ability: At the begin-

All Pokťmon Moves are listed here in alphabetical order. ning of your turn, recover 1d10 HP. This Coat lasts for 1

The PHB also has this move list ordered by type.

min. If it's raining, the Coat lasts for 2 mins.

Aqua Step - Melee Water Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, your

Speed is +1 for 10 mins.

A Aqua Tail - Melee Water Attack: 1/day 3d12.

Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Arena Trap - Ranged(5ft burst) Ground Effect: 1/day. On hit, all targets are bound in place for 2 mins.

Accelerock - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 2d6. Accelerock has

Priority.

Arm Thrust - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 1d4. Arm Thrust

has -2 during Accuracy Check. Arm Thrust is a Scatter at-

Acid Spray - Ranged(20ft) Poison Special Attack: 3/day 1d12. tack. Up to 5 attacks.

On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Armor Cannon - Ranged(40ft) Fire Special Attack: 1/day

Acrobatics - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Acrobatics can- 5d12. On hit, your Defense and Special Defense are -2 for

not be used if you have a held item.

10 mins.

Acupressure - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. Target an ally or Aromatherapy - Melee Grass Effect: 3/day. Target an ally or

yourself. The target's Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Spe- yourself. Target is cured of all afflictions.

cial Defense, or Speed is raised +2 for five mins.

Assurance - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target was

Aerial Ace - Melee Flying Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss already attacked this round, Assurance deals +1d8 damage.

targets with less than 15 Defense.

Astonish - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if you

After You - Ranged(20ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. For the rest of got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

the encounter, your turn will be after the target's turn.

Attract - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the tar-

Air Cutter - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. get is Infatuated with you.

Air Cutter has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Air Cutter is a critical hit.

Aura Sphere - Ranged(30ft) Fighting Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. You can't miss targets with less than 20 Special De-

Air Slash - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. Air fense.

Slash has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Aura Wheel - Melee Electric Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins. If you are Hangry, Aura Wheel is

Alluring Voice - Ranged(15ft wave) Fairy Special Attack: 1/day Dark-type.

3d10. On hit, if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Confused.

Aurora Beam - Ranged(15ft beam) Ice Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, all target's Attack are -1 for 10 mins.

Ally Switch - Self Psychic Effect: 1/day. Ally Switch is used as a Reaction. When you would be hit by an attack, use Ally Switch to instead switch places with a willing ally within 60ft. That ally is hit by the attack instead of you.

Aurora Veil - Melee Ice Effect: 1/day. Put a Veil Coat on the target or yourself. The Coat has the following ability: If within Hail, you only take half the damage from successful attacks. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

Anchor Shot - Melee Steel Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, the target is bound to you or in place for 1d6 rounds.

Avalanche - Melee Ice Attack: 3/day 3d8. If you were attacked by the target this round, use 3d12 for damage in-

Ancient Power - Ranged(10ft) Rock Special Attack: 1/day 2d8. stead.

On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour.

Axe Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. Axe Kick has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on

Apple Acid - Ranged(15ft) Grass Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. Accuracy Check, the target is Confused. If you miss, you

On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

lose HP equal to half of your Max HP.

Aqua Cutter - Melee Water Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you

got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Aqua Cutter is a critical hit.

B

Aqua Jet - Melee Water Attack: At-Will 2d6. Aqua Jet has Priority.

Baneful Bunker - Self Poison Effect: 1/day. Baneful Bunker is used as a Reaction. If you would be hit by a melee attack, use Baneful Bunker to instead ignore the damage and any

effects of the attack, and also Poison the attacker.

Moves - AB

730

Barb Barrage - Ranged(15ft) Poison Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the Bolt Beak - Melee Electric Attack: 1/day 3d8. If the target has

target is afflicted, Barb Barrage has 5d8 for damage in-

not already acted this round, Bolt Beak deals +2d8 damage.

stead. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

Bone Club - Melee Ground Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Barrage - Ranged(10ft) Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Barrage has -2 during Accuracy Check. Barrage is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Bone Rush - Melee Ground Attack: At-Will 1d4. Bone Rush has -2 during Accuracy Check. Bone Rush is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Beak Blast - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 5d12. Beak Blast is a two-turn move. On the first turn: any character who hits you with a melee move until your next turn is Burned. On

Bonemerang - Ranged(15ft) Ground Attack: 3/day 2d8. Bonemerang is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.

the second turn, move up to twice your movement speed, Boomburst - Ranged(25ft burst) Normal Special Attack: 1/day

then you may roll Beak Blast's Accuracy Check and damage. 3d12. Anyone within range of Boomburst is cured of Sleep.

Belch - Ranged(15ft) Poison Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Belch Bounce - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Bounce is a two-

cannot be used unless you've eaten within the last minute. turn move. On the first turn, raise yourself 40 ft into the air.

Belly Drum - Self Normal Effect: 3/day. You lose HP equal to half of your Max HP, then your Attack is +6 for 10 mins.

On the second turn, return to the ground, move up to twice your movement rate, then you may roll Bounce's Accuracy Check and damage. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accu-

Bide - Ranged(25ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Bide is a three racy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

-turn move. On the first and second turns, do nothing. On the third turn, release energy; all characters within range

Branch Poke - Melee Grass Attack: At-Will 2d6.

take damage equal to twice the damage you took since the Brave Bird - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you

first turn of Bide.

lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

Bind - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 damage on its turns.
Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Breaking Swipe - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Attack is -1 for 10 mins.
Brick Break - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. Destroy any Walls within 5 ft. You may target Walls with Brick Break without needing to roll Accuracy Check or damage.

Bitter Blade - Melee Fire Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Bitter Malice - Melee Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.
Blast Burn - Ranged(30ft, 10ft blast) Fire Special Attack: 1/day 5d20. Blast Burn has a recharge turn and -2 during Accuracy Check.
Blaze Kick - Melee Fire Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.
Blizzard - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Ice Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Blizzard has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Hailing. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the targets are Frozen.
Block - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d6 rounds.
Blood Moon - Ranged(5ft burst) Normal Special Attack: 1/day 5d12.
Body Press - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. Body Press deals +2 damage for every point of Defense you have above the target.
Body Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed. Body Slam can Paralyze Electric-types.

Brine - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target is at less than half of their Max HP, Brine has 5d8 for damage instead.
Brutal Swing - Melee(5ft burst) Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8.
Bubble - Ranged(15ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Bubble Beam - Ranged(20ft beam) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Bug Bite - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if the target is holding a Berry, you steal it and immediately consume it.
Bug Buzz - Ranged(20ft) Bug Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Bulldoze - Ranged(20ft burst) Ground Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, all target's Speed are -1 for 10 mins.
Bullet Punch - Melee Steel Attack: At-Will 2d6. Bullet Punch has Priority.
Bullet Seed - Ranged(10ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 1d4. Bullet Seed has -2 during Accuracy Check. Bullet Seed is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Burn Up - Ranged(25ft burst) Fire Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. After use, if the user is only Fire type it becomes Normal type, and if the user is Fire type and another type it loses its Fire typing. This effect lasts for 10 mins.

Moves - B

731

Burning Jealousy - Ranged(30ft, 10ft wave) Fire Special Attack: 1/day 2d12. On hit, if any targets have had any stats raised in the past 2 mins, Burning Jealousy Burns the target.

Close Combat - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Defense and Special Defense are -2 for 10 mins.
Coaching - Melee Fighting Effect: 3/day. Target ally has +2 Attack and +2 Defense for 2 mins.

Comet Punch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Comet

C

Punch has -2 during Accuracy Check. Comet Punch is a

Camouflage - Self Normal Effect: At-Will. Put on a Camo

Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Coat. The Coat has the following ability: Your type changes Comeuppance - Melee Dark Effect: 1/day. Comeuppance is

to reflect your surrounding for 10 mins. (If you are in a

used as a Reaction. After an adjacent enemy hits you with a

grassy field, Grass type; if you are in water, Water type; if move that deals damage, use Comeuppance to deal exactly

you are on a mountain, Rock type; etc.)

1.5x the damage to the enemy that you received. Do not

Ceaseless Edge - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the apply weakness or resistances.

target gains a Splinters Coat unless it already has one. The Confuse Ray - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. On hit, the

coat has the following ability: After acting, roll 1d20; on a target becomes Confused.

result of 16 or better, destroy this coat; otherwise, take 2d4 damage. This Coat lasts for 3 mins, or until you are at 0 or less HP.

Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Celebrate - Ranged(25ft burst) Normal Effect: 3/day. Roll 1d20. On 20, in addition to your own stats, each ally within range has their Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special De-

Constrict - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d6. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

fense, and Speed raised +1 for 10 mins.

Conversion - Self Normal Effect: At-Will. Put a Type Coat on

Charge - Self Electric Effect: At-Will. Your next Electric attack will deal +2d8 damage. Until then, your Special Defense is +1. This effect wears off after one min.

yourself. The Coat has the following ability: Your Type changes to a type matching one of your known moves for two minutes or your Type changes to a type that resists that last attack you were hit by for two minutes.

Charge Beam - Ranged(10ft beam) Electric Special Attack: AtWill 1d12. On hit, your Special Attack is +1 for 10 mins.

Corrosive Gas - Melee Poison Effect: 3/day. On hit, destroy the target's held item, if any. Corrosive Gas cannot destroy

Chatter - Ranged(10ft burst) Flying Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. Mega Stones.

On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Confused.

Counter - Melee Fighting Effect: 1/day. Counter is used as a Reaction. After an enemy hits you with a melee Attack

Chilling Water ≠ Ranged(30ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will move that deals damage, use Counter to deal exactly twice

2d6. On hit, the target's Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

the damage to the enemy that you received. Do not apply

Chip Away - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. Chip Away has weakness or resistances.

+2 on Accuracy Check if used against a target with a De-

Covet - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, steals the

fense or Special Defense raising passive.

target's held item, if any.

Chloroblast - Ranged(30ft burst) Grass Special Attack: 1/day 4d12. You lose HP equal to half of your Max HP, then your Speed is -3 for 10 mins.

Crabhammer - Melee Water Attack: 3/day 3d10. Crabhammer has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Crabhammer is a critical hit.

Circle Throw - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, move the target 40ft away.
Clamp - Melee Water Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 damage on its turns.
Clanging Scales - Ranged(10ft burst) Dragon Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -2 for 10 mins.
Clangorous Soul - Self Dragon Effect: 1/day. You lose HP equal to 1/6th of your Max HP. Your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 10 mins.
Clear Smog - Ranged(5ft burst) Poison Special Attack: At-Will 1d12.

Crafty Shield - Ranged(20ft burst) Fairy Effect: 3/day. Put a Crafty Coat on all allies and yourself. The Coat has the following ability: You cannot become afflicted or have any stats altered by enemies. This Coat lasts for 2 rounds.
Cross Chop - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. Cross Chop has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, Cross Chop is a critical hit.
Cross Poison - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Cross Poison is a critical hit and the target is Poisoned.
Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Crush Claw - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Moves - BC

732

Curse - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. Curse can only be
used by Ghost-Type Pokťmon. On hit, you lose hit points equal to 1/3rd of your max HP, then the target is Cursed.

Doodle - Ranged(40ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, gain each ability passive that the target has for 10 mins. Doodle can only grant ability passives from one target at a time.

Cut - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Double Edge - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

D

Double Hit - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 2d8. Double Hit is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.

Dark Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dark Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Double Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 2d8. Double Kick is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.

Darkest Lariat - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Double Shock - Melee Electric Attack: 1/day 5d12. Double Shock can only be used if you are Electric-type. After use, if

Dazzling Gleam - Ranged(15ft, 10ft wave) Fairy Special Attack: the user is only Electric type it becomes Normal type, and if

3/day 3d8.

the user is Electric type and another type it loses its Electric

Decorate - Melee Fairy Effect: 3/day. Target an ally or your- typing. This effect lasts for 10 mins.

self. The target's Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special

Double Slap - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Double Slap

Defense, or Speed is raised +2 for five mins.

has -2 during Accuracy Check. Double Slap is a Scatter at-

Defog - Ranged(30ft burst) Flying Field Effect: 3/day. Any

tack. Up to 5 attacks.

Walls, Hazards, Weather, or Terrains within range are de- Double Team - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. You create 3 cop-

stroyed.

ies of yourself. You may attack from any copy and copies

Destiny Bond - Self Ghost Effect: 1/day. If you are knocked out before your next turn, the offender who caused you to get knocked out has its HP set to 0.

may inhabit spaces up to 25 ft away from each other, though none can be more than 25 ft from any other copies or the original. If a copy is hit, it disappears and you take 1/4th of the damage it would have taken. If your copy is hit

Detect - Self Fighting Effect: 1/day. Detect is used as a Reac- by a non-damaging attack the copy is dismissed and you

tion. When you would be hit by a move, use Detect to in- are unaffected by the attack. If you are hit, all copies disap-

stead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack.

pear.

Dig - Melee Ground Attack: 3/day 3d10. Dig is a two-turn

Draco Meteor - Ranged(20ft, 10ft blast) Dragon Special At-

move. On the first turn, burrow up to 40 ft straight down. tack: 1/day 5d12. After use, your Special Attack is -4 for 10

On the second turn, burrow up to your movement speed mins.

+40 ft, then you can roll Dig's Accuracy Check and damage. Dragon Cheer - Ranged(30ft burst) Dragon Effect: 3/day. Put

Dire Claw - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got a Cheer Coat on all allies and yourself. The Coat has the

14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is randomly ei- following ability: Your attacks are critical hits on natural 18-

ther Poisoned or Paralyzed. On hit, if you got 18 or higher 20. This Coat lasts for 2 min.

on Accuracy Check, Dire Claw is a critical hit.

Dragon Breath - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: At-Will

Disable - Ranged(20ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. For 1 minute, 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the

the attack last used by the target may not be used again. target is Paralyzed.

Disarming Voice - Ranged(10ft) Fairy Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.
Discharge - Ranged(10ft burst) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Paralyzed.
Dive - Melee Water Attack: 3/day 3d10. Dive is a two-turn move. On the first turn, swim up to 40 ft straight down, and water is hindering terrain on foe's attacks against you until your next turn. On the second turn, swim up to your movement speed +40 ft, then you can roll Dive's Accuracy Check and damage.
Dizzy Punch - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Dragon Claw - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 3d10.
Dragon Darts - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Attack: 3/day 2d8. Dragon Darts is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.
Dragon Hammer - Melee Dragon Attack: 1/day 3d12.
Dragon Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.
Dragon Rage - Ranged(5ft) Dragon Special Attack: 3/day 25. Do not add bonuses of any kind to this damage.
Dragon Rush - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 3d10. Dragon Rush has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Dragon Tail - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, move the target 40ft away.

Moves - CD

733

Drain Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you Electroweb - Ranged(10ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d8.

regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Draining Kiss - Melee Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit,

you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is

Dream Eater - Melee Psychic Special Attack: 1/day 5d12.

Burned.

Dream Eater can only hit Sleeping targets. On hit, you re- Encore - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. If the target can,

gain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

it must use the last move it did for the next 3 rounds or

Drill Peck - Melee Flying Attack: 3/day 3d10.

until it no longer can.

Drill Run - Melee Ground Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Drill Run is a critical hit.

Endeavor - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day. On hit, if the target has more HP than you, the target's HP is set to equal your HP.

Drum Beating - Melee Grass Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Endure - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Endure is used as a Reaction. If you would be hit by an attack that would knock you

Dual Chop - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 2d8. Dual Chop is a out, use Endure to instead be left with 1 HP.

Scatter attack. It has two attacks.

Energy Ball - Ranged(20ft) Grass Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Dual Wingbeat - Melee Flying Attack: 3/day 2d8. Dual Wing- On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

beat is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.

Eruption - Ranged(30ft burst) Fire Special Attack: 1/day 3d10.

Dynamic Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. Dynam- If you are at Max HP, Eruption has 5d12 for damage in-

ic Punch has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is stead.

Confused.

Esper Wing - Ranged(30ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d8.

On hit, during your next action if you attack a foe, your

E

move has priority.

Earth Power - Ranged(15ft) Ground Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Expanding Force - Ranged(30ft) Psychic Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. If you are within Psychic Terrain while using Expanding Force, it deals +2d12 damage on hit.

Earthquake - Ranged(30ft burst) Ground Attack: 1/day 3d12. Explosion - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Attack: 1/day 10d20.

Echoed Voice - Ranged(10ft) Normal Special Attack: At-Will Set your HP to 0, then roll 1d20. On 15 or less, your HP is

1d12. Echoed Voice deals +5 damage if you used it during set to -100% HP and you must make a death saving throw.

the previous round.

Extrasensory - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day

Eerie Spell - Ranged(30ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the

On hit, the attack last used by the target may not be used target is Stunned.

again for 1 minute.

Extreme Speed - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Extreme

Egg Bomb - Ranged(15ft) Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Egg

Speed has Priority and cannot be contested for Priority.

Bomb has -2 during Accuracy Check.

Electric Terrain - Electric Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Electrified Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Anyone

F

touching the ground within the Electrified terrain is im-

Facade - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 3d8. If you have an

mune to being put to Sleep. Within the Electrified Terrain, affliction, use 5d12 as damage instead.

Electric-type attacks deal an additional 8 damage. This terrain disappears after 2 mins.

Fairy Lock - Ranged(30ft burst) Fairy Effect: 1/day. Until your next turn, Pokťmon within range cannot be returned to

Electrify - Melee Electric Effect: 3/day. The next time the tar- Poke Balls, nor can they be caught by Poke Balls.

get uses an attack, the attack is treated as being Electrictype.

Fairy Wind - Ranged(20ft) Fairy Special Attack: At-Will 1d12.

Electro Ball - Ranged(15ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. Electro Ball can only be used against targets slower than you.

Fake Out - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 2d6. Fake Out has Priority. Fake Out can only be used as your first action during an encounter. On hit, the target is Stunned.

Electro Shot - Ranged(30ft beam) Electric Special Attack: 1/ day 5d12. Electro Shot is a two-turn move unless it is Rain-

False Surrender - Melee Dark Attack: 1/day 3d12. You can't miss targets with less than 20 Defense.

ing. On the first turn, do nothing. On the second turn or if it Feint Attack - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss

is Raining, your Special Attack is raised +1 for 10 mins, then targets with less than 15 Defense.

roll Electro Shot's Accuracy Check and damage.

Moves - DEF

734

Fell Stinger - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d8. If you knock out a target with Fell Stinger, your Attack is +2 for 10 mins.
Fickle Beam - Ranged(30ft beam) Dragon Special Attack: 1/ day 3d12. On hit, roll 1d20 with no modifiers; on a result of 11 or greater, Fickle Beam deals +2d12 more damage.

Flare Blitz - Melee Fire Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal and if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.
Flash - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.

Fiery Dance - Ranged(20ft) Fire Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, your Special Attack is +2 for 10 mins.

Flash Cannon - Ranged(20ft) Steel Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Fillet Away - Self Normal Effect: 3/day. You lose HP equal to Flatter - Ranged(10ft) Dark Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is

half of your Max HP, then your Attack, Special Attack and Confused and the target's Special Attack is +4 until they are

Speed are +2 for 10 mins.

no longer Confused.

Final Gambit - Melee Fighting Special Attack: 1/day. On hit, Floral Healing - Melee Fairy Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or

your HP is set to 0, dealing damage equal to the HP you

yourself. The target is healed HP equal to half of the target's

lost.

Max HP. If you are within Grassy Terrain, the target is

Fire Blast - Ranged(40ft, 10ft blast) Fire Special Attack: 1/day healed HP equal to 3/4ths of the target's Max HP instead.

5d12. Fire Blast has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's

Flower Shield - Fairy Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle

Sunny. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, of Flowery Terrain with a 60ft diameter. While within the

the targets are Burned.

Flowery terrain, all Grass-types and Fairy-types have +1 De-

Fire Fang - Melee Fire Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is randomly either

fense and +1 Special Defense. This terrain disappears after 2 mins.

Stunned or Burned.

Flower Trick - Ranged(30ft) Grass Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit,

Fire Lash - Melee Fire Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Flower Trick always counts as a critical hit. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense.

Fire Punch - Melee Fire Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Fly - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Fly is a two-turn move. On the first turn, fly up to 40 ft straight up. On the second turn, fly up to your movement speed +40 ft, then you can

Fire Spin - Ranged(20ft) Fire Special Attack: 3/day 1d4. On hit, roll Fly's Accuracy Check and damage.

the target is bound in place for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 damage on its turns.

Flying Press - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. Flying Press counts as both a Flying and Fighting type move when deter-

First Impression - Melee Bug Attack: 1/day 3d10. First Im- mining effectiveness.

pression has Priority. First Impression can only be used as your first action during an encounter. On hit, the target is Stunned.

Focus Blast - Ranged(30ft) Fighting Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Focus Blast has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Fishious Rend - Melee Water Attack: 1/day 3d8. If the target has not already acted this round, Fishious Rend deals +2d8 damage.

Focus Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 5d12. Focus Punch is a two-turn move. On the first turn: if anyone hits you before your next turn, you are Stunned. On the second

Fissure - Ranged(25ft beam) Ground Attack: 1/day. On hit, roll turn, move up to twice your movement speed, then roll Fo-

1d20. On a natural result of 17, 18, 19, or 20, the target is cus Punch's Accuracy Check and damage.

set to 0 HP.

Follow Me - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit,

Flail - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 1d10. If you are at less

all affected foes will only attack you until you are knocked

than half of your Max HP, Flail has 1d20 for damage in-

out.

stead. If you are at less than 5 HP, Flail has 5d12 for damage instead.

Force Palm - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Flame Burst - Ranged(20ft, 5ft blast) Fire Special Attack: 3/day 3d8.

Foresight - Self Normal Effect: At-Will. You can hit Ghosttypes with Normal and Fighting type moves as if they are

Flame Charge - Melee Fire Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, your not immune to those types of attacks for two mins.

Speed is +1 for 10 mins.

Forest's Curse - Ranged(15ft) Grass Effect: 3/day. On hit, put

Flame Wheel - Melee Fire Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you a Forest Coat on the target. The Coat has the following abil-

got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned. ity: You lose your current Types and become only Grass-

Flamethrower - Ranged(20ft beam) Fire Special Attack: 3/day type for 10 mins.

3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the

target is Burned.

Moves - F

735

Freeze-Dry - Ranged(10ft) Ice Special Attack: 3/day 3d8.

Grassy Glide - Melee Grass Attack: 3/day 3d8. Grassy Glide

Freeze-Dry is Super effective against Water types. On hit, if has priority if you're in Grassy Terrain.

you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.

Grassy Terrain - Grass Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Grassy Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Anyone who acts

Frenzy Plant - Ranged(25ft beam) Grass Special Attack: 1/day within the Grassy terrain recovers 1d12 HP after acting.

5d20. Frenzy Plant has a recharge turn and -2 during Accu- Within the Grassy Terrain, Grass-type attacks deal an addi-

racy Check.

tional 8 damage. This terrain disappears after 2 mins.

Frost Breath - Ranged(10ft) Ice Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. Grav Apple - Ranged(15ft) Grass Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit,

Frost Breath has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, Frost the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Breath always counts as a critical hit.

Gravity - Psychic Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of

Frustration - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Frustration Gravity Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Within the terrain,

can only be used if you have less than 1 loyalty.

Pokťmon may not leave the ground and any Pokťmon that

Fury Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Fury Attack has -2 during Accuracy Check. Fury Attack is a Scatter at-

are in the air are brought down to the ground. This terrain disappears after 2 mins.

tack. Up to 5 attacks.

Guillotine - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day. On hit, roll 1d20.

Fury Cutter - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Fury Cutter against the same tar-

On a natural result of 17, 18, 19, or 20, the target is set to 0 HP.

get during the encounter, add 1d6 to Fury Cutter's damage. Gunk Shot - Ranged(20ft, 10ft blast) Poison Attack: 1/day

Fury Swipes - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Fury Swipes has -2 during Accuracy Check. Fury Swipes is a Scatter at-

5d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Poisoned.

tack. Up to 5 attacks.

Gust - Ranged(20ft) Flying Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. If the

Future Sight - Ranged(30ft) Psychic Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. When you use this attack you immediately end your

target is at least 20 ft off the ground airborne, Gust deals +1d20 damage.

turn. In two rounds, select any target within 30ft of you to Gyro Ball - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. Gyro Ball can

target with Future Sight then you may roll Future Sight's only target faster targets.

Accuracy Check and damage.

H

G

Hail - Ice Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Hailing

Gastro Acid - Ranged(10ft) Poison Effect: 3/day. On hit, the Weather with a 60ft diameter. Anyone who acts within the

target cannot benefit from any ability passives for 10 mins. Hailing weather takes 2d4 damage after acting unless they

Gear Grind - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 2d8. Gear Grind is a are Ice Type. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

Scatter attack. It has two attacks.

Hammer Arm - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit,

Giga Drain - Melee Grass Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, your Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Haze - Ice Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Hazy

Giga Impact - Melee(10ft burst) Normal Attack: 1/day 5d20. Giga Impact has a recharge turn and -2 during Accuracy Check.

Weather with a 60ft diameter. Within the Hazy weather, all stat altering passives are disabled. Stats cannot be altered by anything within the Hazy weather. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

Gigaton Hammer - Ranged(5ft burst) Steel Attack: 1/day 5d12.

Head Charge - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.

Glaive Rush - Melee Dragon Attack: 1/day 5d12. Until your next turn, you take double the damage you would from successful attacks.

Head Smash - Melee Rock Attack: 1/day 7d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to half of the damage you deal. Head Smash has -2 during Accuracy Check.

Glare - Ranged(20ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target becomes Paralyzed.

Headbutt - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Grass Knot - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. Grass Knot can only target heavier targets.

Headlong Rush - Melee Ground Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Defense and Special Defense are -2 for 10 mins.

Grass Whistle - Ranged(20ft burst) Grass Effect: 1/day. Grass Whistle has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, all targets fall Asleep.

Heal Bell - Ranged(10ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. You and all allies within range are cured of all afflictions.

Moves - FGH

736

Heal Block - Ranged(30ft burst) Psychic Effect: 1/day. All affected targets cannot be healed or heal for 1 minute.
Heal Order - Self Bug Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP.
Heal Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or yourself. The target is healed HP equal to half of the target's Max HP.
Healing Wish - Melee Psychic Effect: 1/day. Your HP is set to 0, then target ally is healed to Max HP and cured of any afflictions.

Hydro Pump - Ranged(30ft beam) Water Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Hydro Pump has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Raining.
Hyper Beam - Ranged(25ft beam) Normal Special Attack: 1/ day 5d20. Hyper Beam has a recharge turn and -2 during Accuracy Check.
Hyper Drill - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Hyper Drill cannot be prevented by reaction moves.
Hyper Fang - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Heart Stamp - Melee Psychic Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Heat Crash - Melee Fire Attack: 3/day 3d10. Heat Crash can only target lighter targets.

Hyper Voice - Ranged(30ft beam) Normal Special Attack: 1/ day 3d12.
Hypnosis - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Effect: 3/day. Hypnosis has 4 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is put Asleep.

Heat Wave - Ranged(25ft burst) Fire Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, targets are Burned.
Heavy Slam - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. Heavy Slam can only target lighter targets.
Helping Hand - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. Target ally's next attack during this round will deal +1d20 damage.
Hex - Ranged(15ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target is afflicted, Hex has 5d8 for damage instead.
Hidden Power ≠ Ranged(25ft) (Variable) Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. When Hidden Power is added to a move list, assign a random Type to it (Type can't be changed by relearning this move).
High Horsepower - Melee Ground Attack: 3/day 3d10.
High Jump Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. High Jump Kick has -2 during Accuracy Check. If you miss, you lose HP equal to half of your Max HP.
Hold Back - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Hold Back cannot be used to knock out a target. Instead, the target will still have 1 HP.
Horn Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8.
Horn Drill - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day. On hit, roll 1d20. On a natural result of 17, 18, 19, or 20, the target is set to 0 HP.
Horn Leech - Melee Grass Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

I
Ice Ball - Melee Ice Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Ice Ball against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Ice Ball's damage.
Ice Beam - Ranged(20ft beam) Ice Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.
Ice Fang - Melee Ice Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is randomly either Stunned or Frozen.
Ice Hammer - Melee Ice Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Ice Punch - Melee Ice Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.
Ice Shard - Ranged(15ft) Ice Attack: At-Will 2d6. Ice Shard has Priority.
Ice Spinner - Melee Ice Attack: 3/day 3d8. Destroy any Terrain effects that you move through while using Ice Spinner. You may target Terrain with Ice Spinner without needing to roll Accuracy Check or damage.
Icicle Crash - Ranged(15ft) Ice Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Icicle Spear - Ranged(10ft) Ice Attack: At-Will 1d4. Icicle Spear has -2 during Accuracy Check. Icicle Spear is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Hurricane - Ranged(25ft, 10ft blast) Flying Special Attack: 1/ day 5d12. Hurricane has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Raining. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the targets are Confused.
Hydro Cannon - Ranged(25ft beam) Water Special Attack: 1/ day 5d20. Hydro Cannon has a recharge turn and -2 during Accuracy Check.

Icy Wind - Ranged(10ft) Ice Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Incinerate - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if the target is holding a Berry, you destroy it.
Infernal Parade - Ranged(30ft) Ghost Special Attack: 1/day 3d8. If the target is afflicted, Infernal Parade has 3d12 for damage instead. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Moves - HI

737

Inferno - Ranged(40ft) Fire Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Infer- L

no has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Burned.

Laser Focus - Ranged(30ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, your next attack against the same target will be a Critical Hit.

Infestation - Ranged(20ft) Bug Special Attack: At-Will 1d4. On You still need to make an Accuracy Check.

hit, the target is bound in place for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 damage on its turns.

Lash Out - Melee Dark Attack: 1/day 3d12. If your stats were lowered this round by the target, use 6d12 for damage in-

Ingrain - Self Grass Effect: 1/day. Put a Root Coat on your- stead.

self. The Coat has the following ability: At the beginning of your turn, recover 1d12 HP. You may not move. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

Last Respects - Melee Ghost Attack: 1/day 1d12. Last Respects deals +1d12 damage for each ally who has been knocked out this encounter (max +7d12).

Instruct - Ranged(15ft) Psychic Effect: 3/day. Targeted ally may immediately act if they haven't this round.

Lava Plume - Ranged(20ft burst) Fire Special Attack: 1/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, tar-

Ion Deluge - Electric Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of gets are burned.

Ionic Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Within the Ionic terrain, all Normal-type attacks become Electric-type attacks. This terrain disappears after 2 mins.

Leaf Blade - Melee Grass Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Leaf Blade is a critical hit.

Iron Head - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Leaf Storm - Ranged(30ft beam) Grass Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. After use, your Special Attack is -4 for 10 mins.

Iron Tail - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. Iron Tail has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Leaf Tornado - Ranged(10ft) Grass Special Attack: At-Will 2d8.

Leafage - Ranged(20ft) Grass Special Attack: At-Will 1d12.

J

Leech Life - Melee Bug Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Jaw Lock - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d6 rounds.

Leech Seed - Ranged(10ft) Grass Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target gets a Seed Coat. The Coat has the following ability:

Jet Punch - Melee Water Attack: 3/day 3d8. Jet Punch has At the beginning of your turn, if you are within 20 ft of the

Priority.

enemy who gave you the Seed Coat, you lose 1d12 HP. The

Jump Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d10. Jump Kick has -2 during Accuracy Check. If you miss, you lose HP equal to half of your Max HP.

enemy who gave you the Seed Coat will gain the same amount of HP that you lost. This Coat lasts for 3 mins, or until you are at 0 or less HP.

Lick - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d8. On hit, if you got 15 or

higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

K Karate Chop - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, if

Life Dew - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Effect: 1/day. You and any allies in range are each healed HP equal to 1/6th of your

you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Karate Chop is a Max HP.

critical hit.

Light Screen - Ranged(30ft) Psychic Effect: 3/day. Place 40ft

Kinesis - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Effect: At-Will. On hit, the tar- of contiguous Light Screen Wall. Light Screen Wall is see

get's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.

through, 12 ft tall, and has the following ability: Special At-

King's Shield - Self Steel Effect: 1/day. King's Shield is used as a Reaction. If you would be hit by a melee attack, use

tacks that target through this wall deal 10 less damage. This Wall disappears after 2 mins.

King's Shield to instead ignore the damage and any effects Liquidation - Ranged(10ft) Water Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit,

of the attack, and also the attacker's Attack is -4 for 10

the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

mins.

Lock-On - Ranged(40ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. Lock-On can't

Knock Off - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target miss. Your next attack against the same target will not

drops any held items or weapons.

miss.

Kowtow Cleave - Melee Dark Attack: 1/day 3d12. You can't Lovely Kiss - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. Lovely Kiss has -3

miss targets with less than 15 Defense.

during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is put Asleep.

Low Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d10. Low Kick can only target heavier targets.

Moves - IJKL

738

Low Sweep - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, the Mega Drain - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d10. On hit,

target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Lucky Chant - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 3/day. Put a Lucky Coat on all allies and yourself. The Coat has the following ability: If you are hit by a Critical Hit, treat the hit as a regular successful hit. This Coat lasts for 2 rounds.
Lumina Crash - Ranged(30ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -2 for 10 mins.
Lunge - Melee Bug Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Attack is -1 for 10 mins.
M
Mach Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. Mach Punch has Priority.
Magic Coat - Melee Psychic Effect: 3/day. Put a Magic Coat on the target or yourself. The Coat has the following ability: If you would be given an affliction by a foe, instead that foe receives the affliction. This Coat lasts for 2 rounds.

Mega Kick- Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. Mega Kick has -3 during Accuracy Check.
Mega Punch- Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8.
Megahorn - Melee Bug Attack: 1/day 5d12.
Memento - Melee Dark Effect: 1/day. Your HP is set to 0, then the target's Attack and Special Attack are set to 0 for 10 mins.
Metal Burst - Ranged(40ft) Steel Effect: 1/day. Metal Burst is used as a Reaction. After an enemy within range hits you with a move that deals damage, use Metal Burst to deal exactly 1.5x the damage to the enemy that you received. Do not apply weakness or resistances.
Metal Claw - Melee Steel Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.
Meteor Assault - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, the target is Stunned. This move has a Recharge turn.

Magic Powder - Melee Psychic Effect: 3/day. On hit, put a Meteor Beam - Ranged(30ft beam) Rock Special Attack: 1/day

Weird Coat on the target. The Coat has the following ability: 5d12. Meteor Beam is a two-turn move. On the first turn,

You lose your current Types and become only Psychic-type do nothing. On the second turn, you have +4 to Special At-

for 10 mins.

tack this turn, then you may roll Meteor Beam's Accuracy

Magic Room - Psychic Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle Check and damage.

of Magical Terrain with a 60ft diameter. If within the Magi- Meteor Mash - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, your

cal terrain, Pokťmon cannot use any held items. This ter- Attack is +1 for 10 mins.

rain disappears after 2 mins.

Metronome - Normal Effect: 3/day. Immediately use a ran-

Magical Leaf - Ranged(25ft) Grass Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. dom attack (non-Legendary).

You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.

Milk Drink - Melee Normal Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or

Magnet Bomb - Ranged(25ft) Steel Attack: 3/day 3d8. You yourself. The target is healed HP equal to half of the tar-

can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense.

get's Max HP.

Magnet Pull - Ranged(10ft) Electric Effect: 3/day. Magnet Pull Mind Reader - Ranged(40ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. Mind

can't miss. If used on a Steel type, the target is bound to Reader can't miss. Your next attack against the same target

you.

will not miss.

Magnet Rise - Self Electric Effect: 3/day. You gain an immun- Minimize - Self Normal Effect: 3/day. Until your next turn,

ity to Ground type attacks and gain a flight movement

attacks made against you have -2 during Accuracy Check.

speed equal to half your land speed for two mins.

Miracle Eye - Self Psychic Effect: 3/day. You can hit Dark-

Make it Rain - Ranged(10ft burst) Steel Special Attack: 1/day types with Psychic type moves as if they are not immune to

5d12. After use, your Special Attack is -4 for 10 mins.

that type of attacks for two mins.

Mat Block - Ranged(10ft) Fighting Effect: 1/day. Mat Block is Mirror Coat - Ranged(40ft) Psychic Effect: 1/day. Mirror Coat

used as a Reaction. If an ally within range would be hit by is used as a Reaction. After an enemy hits you with a

an attack, use Mat Block to instead move to that ally, who ranged Special Attack move that deals damage, use Mirror

ignores the damage and any effects of the attack.

Coat to deal exactly twice the damage to the enemy that

you received. Do not apply weakness or resistances. Matcha Gotcha - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d10. On

hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt. On hit, Mirror Move - Ranged(30ft) Flying Effect: 1/day. You perform

if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is

the same attack that was just used against you, even if it

Burned.

missed.

Mean Look - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is bound in place for 2 mins. Ghost Pokťmon are immune to Mean Look.

Mirror Shot - Ranged(20ft) Steel Special Attack: At-Will 2d8.

Moves - LM

739

Mist - Ice Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Misty

N

Weather with a 60ft diameter. Within the Misty weather, Stats cannot be lowered. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

Needle Arm - Melee Grass Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Misty Explosion - Ranged(30ft burst) Fairy Special Attack: 1/ day 7d20. Set your HP to 0, then roll 1d20. On 10 or less, your HP is set to -100% HP and you must make a death

Night Daze - Ranged(10ft) Dark Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.

saving throw.

Night Shade - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 20.

Misty Terrain - Fairy Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle Do not add bonuses of any kind to this damage.

of Misty Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Within the Misty ter- Night Slash - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you

rain, Dragon-type attacks are resisted by anyone who is not got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Night Slash is a critical

already resistant to Dragon-type attacks and afflictions can- hit.

not be given to anyone. This terrain disappears after 2 mins.

No Retreat - Self Fighting Effect: 3/day. As a free action, as long as you can see a foe, you cannot move away from

Moonblast - Ranged(20ft) Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. them, or be returned to a Poke Ball until you are knocked

On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

out. Your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense,

Moonlight - Melee Fairy Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or your- and Speed are each raised +1 for 10 mins.

self. The target is healed HP equal to half of the target's

Nuzzle - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 1d10. On hit, the target

Max HP. If you are within Sunny Weather, the target is

is Paralyzed.

healed HP equal to 3/4ths of the target's Max HP instead.

Morning Sun - Melee Normal Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or yourself. The target is healed HP equal to half of the tar-

O

get's Max HP. If you are within Sunny Weather, the target is Obstruct - Self Dark Effect: 1/day. Obstruct is used as a Re-

healed HP equal to 3/4ths of the target's Max HP instead.

action. If you would be hit by an attack, use Obstruct to

Mortal Spin - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 1d8. Destroy any Coats, and free bound allies within 5 ft. You may target Coats, or bound allies with Mortal Spin without needing to

instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack. Also, if the ignored attack was a melee attack, the attacker's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

roll Accuracy Check or damage. On hit, if you got 18 or

Octazooka - Ranged(15ft) Water Special Attack: 3/day 3d8.

higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -3 during their next

Mountain Gale - Ranged(30ft) Ice Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, turn.

if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is

Octolock - Melee Fighting Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target is

Stunned.

bound to you for 1d6 rounds. While the target is bound,

Mud Bomb - Ranged(10ft) Ground Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. the target's Defense and Special Defense is -1.

On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next Odor Sleuth - Self Normal Effect: At-Will. You can hit Ghost-

turn.

types with Normal and Fighting type moves as if they are

Mud Shot - Ranged(10ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. not immune to those types of attacks for two mins.

On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Ominous Wind - Ranged(10ft) Ghost Special Attack: 1/day

Mud-Slap - Ranged(5ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 1d6. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next

2d8. On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour.

turn.

Order Up - Ranged(30ft) Dragon Attack: 3/day 3d8. If you

Mud Sport - Melee Ground Effect: At-Will. Put a Mud Coat on the target or yourself. The Coat has the following ability: Reduce damage from Electric attacks that hit you by 10. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

have a Tatsugiri in your mouth using its Commander passive, Order Up will additionally have an effect depending on the form of the Tatsugiri: [Curly] Your Attack is +2 for 10 mins, [Droopy] your Defense is +2 for 10 mins, or [Stretchy] your Speed is +2 for 10 mins.

Muddy Water - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Water Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, any target's Accuracy Checks are -2 during their next turn.

Outrage - Melee Dragon Attack: 1/day 5d12. Outrage is a two-turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Ac-

Mystical Fire - Ranged(20ft) Fire Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. curacy Check and damage against them. After your second

On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

turn you are Confused.

Overdrive - Ranged(10ft burst) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Moves - MNO

740

Overheat - Ranged(30ft burst) Fire Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. After use, your Special Attack is -4 for 10 mins.
P
Pain Split - Melee Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, you and target's current HPs are added together and halved, assigning both you and the target that new value. Neither can have their new HPs be more than their Max.
Parabolic Charge - Melee Electric Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Payback - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. If you were attacked by the target this round, use 3d12 for damage instead.
Peck - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Perish Song - Ranged(40ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. All possible Pokťmon targets including yourself receive 3 Perish Coats. The Coats have the following ability: After acting, destroy one of your Perish Coats. If this is the third Perish Coat you've destroyed this way during this encounter, set your HP to 0.

Poison Tail - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned; if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Poison Tail is a critical hit.
Pollen Puff - Ranged(10ft) Bug Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, you may choose to deal damage with Pollen Puff or heal the target's HP equal to the amount of damage Pollen Puff would have dealt.
Poltergeist - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Attack: 1/day 5d12. Poltergeist can only be used if the target has a held item.
Population Bomb - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 1d4. Population Bomb is a Scatter attack. Up to 10 attacks.
Pounce - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Pound - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Powder - Melee Bug Effect: 1/day. Powder is used as a Reaction. If an enemy within melee range would hit you with a Fire-type attack, use Powder to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the Fire-type attack, and also the enemy loses HP equal to 1/6th of its Max HP.

Petal Blizzard - Ranged(10ft burst) Grass Attack: 3/day 3d10.
Petal Dance - Ranged(5ft burst) Grass Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Petal Dance is a two-turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.

Powder Snow - Ranged(5ft burst) Ice Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.
Power Gem - Ranged(20ft) Rock Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.
Power Whip - Melee Grass Attack: 1/day 5d12. Power Whip has -2 during Accuracy Check.

Phantom Force - Melee Ghost Attack: 1/day 3d12. Phantom Power-Up Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit,

Force is a two-turn move. On the first turn, disappear from your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.

the battlefield. On the second turn, reappear anywhere

within 25 ft of where you vanished, move up to twice your Present - Ranged(10ft) Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, you

movement speed, and roll Phantom Force's Accuracy Check may choose to deal damage with Present or heal the tar-

and damage.

get's HP equal to the amount of damage Present would

have dealt.

Pin Missile - Ranged(10ft) Bug Attack: At-Will 1d4. Pin Missile

has -2 during Accuracy Check. Pin Missile is a Scatter attack. Protect - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Protect is used as a Reac-

Up to 5 attacks.

tion. When you would be hit by a move, use Protect to in-

stead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack.

Play Rough - Melee Fairy Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the tar-

get's Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Psybeam - Ranged(15ft beam) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day

3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the

Poison Fang - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, if you target is Confused.

got 10 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Toxified.

Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On

Poison Gas - Ranged(5ft burst) Poison Effect: 3/day. Poison hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Gas has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, all targets are

Poisoned.

Psychic Fangs - Melee Psychic Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit,

Psychic Fangs destroys all walls within melee range. Psychic

Poison Jab - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you Fangs can target walls.

got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

Psychic Terrain - Psychic Field Effect: 3/day. You create a

Poison Powder - Melee Poison Effect: At-Will. Poison Powder circle of Psychic Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Characters

has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Poi-

touching the ground within the Psychic Terrain are immune

soned.

to damage dealt by Reaction moves or moves used during

Poison Sting - Melee Poison Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you Priority turns. Within the Psychic Terrain, Psychic-type atgot 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned. tacks deal an additional 8 damage This terrain disappears
after 2 mins.

Moves - OP

741

Psycho Cut - Ranged(20ft) Psychic Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, Rain Dance - Water Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of

if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Psycho Cut is a Raining Weather with a 60ft diameter. Within the Raining

critical hit.

weather, Water-type attacks deal an additional 8 damage

Psycho Shift - Melee Psychic Effect: 1/day. On hit, you are cured of all afflictions and the target receives each affliction

and Fire-type attacks deal 8 less damage. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

you were cured of.

Rapid Spin - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d8. Destroy any

Psyshield Bash - Melee Psychic Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, your Defense and Special Defense are each raised +1 for 10 mins.

Hazards or Coats, and free bound allies within 5 ft. You may target Hazards, Coats, or bound allies with Rapid Spin without needing to roll Accuracy Check or damage.

Psyshock - Ranged(20ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. Psyshock's Accuracy Check is made against the target's Defense.

Razor Leaf - Ranged(25ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Razor Leaf is a critical hit.

Punishment - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 2d10. Punishment deals an additional 1d10 damage for each stat buff Passive

Razor Shell - Melee Water Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

the target has.

Razor Wind - Ranged(30ft, 10ft wave) Normal Attack: 3/day

Purify - Melee Poison Effect: 3/day. Target an ally or yourself. Target is cured of Poison and Toxin, then if they were cured of Poison or Toxin they are healed 1d20 HP.

3d10. Razor Wind is a two-turn move. On the first turn, do nothing. On the second turn, you may roll Razor Wind's Accuracy Check and damage. On hit, if you got 18 or more on Accuracy Check, Razor Wind is a critical hit.

Pursuit - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d6. Pursuit deals +6 damage to a target if they ended their turn further away from you during the start of their turn.

Recover - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP.

Pyro Ball - Ranged(40ft) Fire Attack: 1/day 5d12. Pyro Ball has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Reflect - Melee Psychic Effect: 3/day. Put a Reflect Coat on the target or yourself. The Coat has the following ability: Reduce damage from attacks that use the attack stat that hit you by 10. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

Reflect Type - Ranged(30ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. On hit,

Q, R

put a Ref Coat on yourself. The Coat has the following abil-

Quash - Melee Dark Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target will act last during each round for two mins. Its Speed is unaffect-

ity: Your Type changes to any one type that the target had. This effect lasts for 10 mins.

ed.

Refresh - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. Target an ally or your-

Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick At- self. Target is cured of all afflictions.

tack has Priority.

Rest - Self Psychic Effect: 1/day. You may fall Asleep. If you

Rage - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.

do, you recover your HP to Max HP and are cured of all afflictions. You cannot attempt to wake up or be awoken naturally for 3 rounds.

Rage Fist - Melee Ghost Attack: 3/day 1d8. Rage Fist deals +1d8 damage for each time you have been hit during this encounter by an attack that dealt damage (max +7d8).

Retaliate - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 1d12. If the target knocked out an ally during this round, Retaliate has 5d12 for damage instead.

Rage Powder - Ranged(10ft) Bug Effect: 3/day. Rage Powder is used as a Reaction. If an ally would be attacked, you may target the attacking enemy and they will only want to attack

Return - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Return can only be used if you have 3 or more loyalty.

you instead, for 2 mins.

Revelation Dance - Ranged(10ft burst) Variable Special At-

Raging Bull - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Raging Bull's type can change to match one of your types before you roll

tack: 1/day 3d12. This attack's type is dependent on your primary type.

to hit. Destroy any Wall or Hazard effects that you move Revenge - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. If you were at-

through while using Raging Bull.

tacked by the target this round, use 3d12 for damage in-

Raging Fury - Melee Fire Attack: At-Will 1d8. For each time stead.

you've successfully used Raging Fury against the same tar- Reversal - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 1d10. If you are at

get during the encounter, add 1d8 to Raging Fury's dam- less than half of your Max HP, Reversal has 1d20 for dam-

age. Foes deal an additional 1d8 to you with attacks if you age instead. If you are at less than 5 HP, Reversal has 5d12

have used Raging Fury in the last minute.

for damage instead.

Revival Blessing - Melee Normal Effect: 1/day. Target ally at 0 or less HP is healed to half Max HP.

Moves - PQR

742

Rising Voltage - Ranged(30ft) Electric Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. If you are within Electric Terrain while using Rising Voltage, it deals +2d12 damage on hit.

Sand Tomb - Ranged(10ft) Ground Attack: 3/day 1d4. On hit, the target is bound in place for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 damage on its turns.

Roar - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, Pokť- Sandstorm - Rock Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of

mon that are smaller than you will not want to fight and will Sandstorming Weather with a 60ft diameter. Anyone who

attempt to run away from you.

acts within the Sandstorming weather takes 2d4 damage

after acting unless they are Rock-type, Ground-type, or

Rock Blast - Ranged(10ft) Rock Attack: At-Will 1d4. Rock Blast has -2 during Accuracy Check. Rock Blast is a Scatter attack.

Steel-type. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

Up to 5 attacks.

Scald - Ranged(10ft) Water Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit,

if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is

Rock Climb - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Burned. Scald can Burn Fire-types.

Rock Slide - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Rock Attack: 1/day 5d12. Rock Slide has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Scale Shot - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Attack: At-Will 1d4. Scale Shot has -2 during Accuracy Check. Scale Shot is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Rock Smash - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Scorching Sands - Ranged(10ft) Ground Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Rock Throw - Ranged(20ft) Rock Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Scratch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Rock Tomb - Ranged(15ft) Rock Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Seed Bomb - Ranged(15ft) Grass Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Rock Wrecker - Ranged(25ft, 10ft blast) Rock Attack: 1/day 5d20. Rock Wrecker has a recharge turn and -2 during Ac-

Seismic Toss - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 25. Do not add bonuses of any kind to this damage.

curacy Check.

Self-Destruct - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Attack: 1/day

Rolling Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

7d20. Set your HP to 0, then roll 1d20. On 10 or less, your HP is set to -100% HP and you must make a death saving throw.

Rollout - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Rollout against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Rollout's damage.

Shadow Ball - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Roost - Self Flying Effect: 1/day. You must be on the ground to use Roost. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max

Shadow Bone - Melee Ghost Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

HP. You lose Flying-type until your next turn.

Shadow Claw - Melee Ghost Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you

Round - Ranged(15ft burst) Normal Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. For every time anyone has used Round before you during

got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Shadow Claw is a critical hit.

this round of combat, Round deals +1d10 damage.

Shadow Punch - Melee Ghost Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't

miss targets with less than 15 Defense.

S
Sacred Sword - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d10. Sacred Sword has +2 during Accuracy Check.
Safeguard - Ranged(10ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Put a Safe Coat on all allies and yourself. The Coat has the following ability: You cannot become afflicted. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.
Salt Cure - Ranged(10ft) Rock Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target gets a Salt Coat. The Coat has the following ability: At the beginning of your turn, you lose 1d6 HP. If you are Steeltype or Water-type, you lose 2d6 HP instead. This Coat lasts for 3 mins, or until you are at 0 or less HP.
Sand Attack - Ranged(10ft) Ground Effect: At-Will. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.

Shadow Sneak - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 2d6. Shadow Sneak has Priority.
Shadow Tag - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is bound in place for 2 mins. Ghost Pokťmon are immune to Shadow Tag.
Shed Tail - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Shed Tail is used as a Reaction. If you would be hit by an attack that would deal more than 1/3rd of your Max HP in damage, use Shed Tail to instead ignore the damage and effects of the attack, but also lose HP equal to 1/3rd of your Max HP. Then, move up to 40 ft.
Sheer Cold - Ranged(15ft, 10ft wave) Ice Special Attack: 1/day. On hit, roll 1d20. On a natural result of 17, 18, 19, or 20, the target is set to 0 HP.

Moves - RS

743

Shell Side Arm - Ranged(20ft) Poison Variable Attack: 3/day Sky Attack - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 5d12. Sky Attack is a

3d10. Shell Side Arm's Accuracy Check is made against the two-turn move. On the first turn, fly up to 40 ft straight up.

target's Defense or Special Defense and Shell Side Arm's On the second turn, fly up to three times your movement

Accuracy Check is made with your Attack or Special Attack, speed, then you can roll Sky Attack's Accuracy Check and

both chosen before Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18 or damage. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check,

higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

the target is Stunned.

Shell Smash - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. As a free action, your Defense and Special Defense are -3, then your Attack, Special Attack and Speed are +3 for 10 mins.
Shell Trap - Self Fire Special Attack: 1/day. Shell Trap is used as a Reaction. If you would be hit by a melee attack, use Shell Trap to make the attacker take 3d12 Fire-type Special Attack damage after you take the damage and any effects of the triggering attack. You do not need to roll an accuracy check to hit the offender, and they take the damage from Shell Trap even if their attack knocks you out or otherwise prevents you from acting.
Shock Wave - Ranged(20ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.
Shore Up - Self Ground Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP. If you are within Sandstorming Weather, you are healed HP equal to 3/4ths of your Max HP instead.
Signal Beam - Ranged(15ft beam) Bug Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Confused.
Silk Trap - Self Bug Effect: 1/day. Silk Trap is used as a Reaction. If you would be hit by an attack, use Silk Trap to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack. Also, if the ignored attack was a melee attack, the attacker's Speed is ≠2 for 10 mins.
Silver Wind - Ranged(10ft) Bug Special Attack: 1/day 2d8. On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour.
Sing - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Sing has -8 during Accuracy Check. On hit, all targets fall Asleep.
Sketch - Ranged(25ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. You permanently learn the target's last-used move. If Sketch is used to learn a Move when you already know 6 Moves, the new move replaces Sketch.
Skitter Smack - Melee Bug Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.
Skull Bash - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. Skull Bash is a two-turn move. On the first turn: Your Defense is increased to 15 until your next turn (do not decrease it if it is higher). On the second turn, move up to twice your movement speed, then roll Skull Bash's Accuracy Check and damage.

Sky Drop - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Sky Drop is a two-turn move. On the first turn, an adjacent character is bound to you, then you fly up to 40 ft straight up; they can't use ranged moves until your next turn. On the second turn, you both return to the ground, they are no longer bound to you, and you can roll Sky Drop's Accuracy Check and damage.
Sky Uppercut - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d10. You may leap up to 60ft upwards to hit a target while using Sky Uppercut.
Slack Off - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP.
Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Slam has -2 during Accuracy Check.
Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.
Sleep Powder - Melee Grass Effect: At-Will. Sleep Powder has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is put to Sleep.
Sleep Talk - Self Normal Effect: 3/day. Sleep Talk may only be used while you are Asleep. You randomly use another move that you know. You may move at half speed while using Sleep Talk.
Slippin Slide - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d6. If you are in water, Raining terrain, or Tide terrain, Slippin Slide deals +1d6 damage.
Sludge - Ranged(15ft) Poison Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.
Sludge Bomb - Ranged(25ft, 5ft blast) Poison Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Poisoned.
Sludge Wave - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Poison Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Poisoned.
Smack Down - Ranged(25ft) Rock Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, Smack Down knocks the target out of the air, removing any Ground-type immunities and disabling the target's ability to move in the air for 2 mins.
Smart Strike - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense.

Smelling Salts - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. If Smelling Salts is used against a Paralyzed target, Smelling Salts deals 5d8 for damage instead, then cures the target of Paralysis. If you choose not to roll damage while using Smelling Salt, you do not need to roll an Accuracy Check.

Moves - S

744

Smog - Ranged(5ft) Poison Special Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, Spider Web - Ranged(20ft) Bug Effect: 1/day. On hit, the tar-

if you got 13 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poi- get is bound in place for 1d6 turns.

soned.

Spike Cannon - Ranged(10ft) Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4.

Smoke Screen - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. Place up Spike Cannon has -2 during Accuracy Check. Spike Cannon

to 25 contiguous ft of Smoke Screen Wall. Smoke Screen is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Wall has no thickness, is 12 ft tall and has the following ability: Attacks that target through or within the wall have 2 during Accuracy Check. This Wall disappears after 2 mins.

Spikes - Ranged(20ft burst) Ground Effect: 3/day. Place the Spikes Hazard in the area surrounding you. Spikes Hazard has the following ability: When a foe moves through Spikes

Snap Trap - Melee Grass Attack: 3/day 2d6. On hit, the tar- Hazard during their turn and are on the ground, they lose

get is bound to you for 1 min.

1/6th of their Max HP. This Hazard disappears after 2 mins.

Snarl - Ranged(5ft burst) Dark Special Attack: At-Will 1d8. On Spiky Shield - Self Grass Effect: 1/day. Spiky Shield is used

hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

as a Reaction. If an enemy within melee range would hit

Snipe Shot - Ranged(40ft) Water Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. Snipe Shot cannot be redirected by passives or any other ability, instead only hitting a target it was directed at.

you with an attack, use Spiky Shield to instead ignore the
damage and any effects of the attack, and also the enemy loses HP equal to 1/6th of its Max HP.

Snore - Melee Normal Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. Snore can only be used while you're Asleep. You may move at half of

Spin Out - Melee Steel Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, your Speed is -2 for 10 mins.

your normal Speed if you use Snore during your action. On Spirit Break - Melee Fairy Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the

hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Stunned.

Spirit Shackle - Ranged(25ft) Ghost Attack: 3/day 3d10. On

Snowscape - Ice Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of hit, the target is bound to the ground for 1d6 rounds.

Snowing Weather with a 60ft diameter. Any Ice Types within Snowing Weather have +2 Defense. Pokťmon who benefit from Hailing weather with passives or the effect of moves they use also benefit from those effects in Snowing

Spit Up - Ranged(15ft) Normal Special Attack: 1/day. Destroy up to 3 of your Coats of Stuff. For every Coat of Stuff you destroy, Spit Up deals an additional 2d10 damage.

Weather. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

Splash - Melee Normal Effect: At-Will. Instead of making an

Soak - Melee Water Effect: 3/day. On hit, put a Soak Coat on the target. The Coat has the following ability: You lose your

Accuracy Check, roll 1d20. On 18 or higher, all adjacent foes are moved 5 ft away from the user.

current Types and become only Water-type for 10 mins. Spore - Melee Grass Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is put to

Soft Boiled - Melee Normal Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or Sleep.

yourself. The target is healed HP equal to half of the tar- Stealth Rock - Ranged(5ft) Rock Effect: 3/day. Place a Stealth

get's Max HP.

Rock Hazard adjacent to you. Stealth Rock Hazard has the

Solar Beam - Ranged(30ft beam) Grass Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Solar Beam is a two-turn move unless it is Sunny. On the first turn, do nothing. On the second turn or if it is Sunny, roll Solar Beam's Accuracy Check and damage.

following ability: If a foe moves within 20 ft of Stealth Rock Hazard, it will hurl itself at the foe, destroying itself and dealing 2d12 Rock-type damage to the foe without needing an Accuracy Check. This Hazard disappears after 2 mins.

Solar Blade - Melee Grass Attack: 1/day 5d12. Solar Blade is a two-turn move unless it is Sunny. On the first turn, do

Steamroller - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

nothing. On the second turn or if it is Sunny, move up to Steel Beam - Ranged(30ft) Steel Special Attack: 1/day 7d12.

twice your movement speed, then roll Solar Blade's Accura- On hit, you lose HP equal to half of the damage you deal.

cy Check and damage.

Steel Roller - Melee Steel Attack: 1/day 5d12. Steel Roller

Sonic Boom - Ranged(5ft) Normal Special Attack: At-Will 10. can only be used if you are in the area of a Terrain move,

Do not add bonuses of any kind to this damage.

and destroys that Terrain when used.

Spark - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 Steel Wing - Melee Steel Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, the tar-

or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

get's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Sparkling Aria - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Special Attack: 1/ Sticky Web - Ranged(25ft burst) Bug Effect: 3/day. Place the

day 3d12. Sparkling Aria cures any ally's Burns within range Sticky Web Hazard in the area surrounding you. Sticky Web

without damaging them.

Hazard has the following ability: Foes moving through

Spicy Extract - Melee Grass Effect: 3/day. Target an ally, a foe, or yourself. The target's Attack is +3 and the target's Defense is -3 for 10 mins. Spicy Extract cannot miss.

Sticky Web Hazard on the ground have -25ft movement per turn, to a minimum of 5ft. This Hazard disappears after 2 mins.

Moves - S

745

Stockpile - Normal Self Effect: At-Will. Put a Stuff Coat on Sucker Punch - Melee Dark Attack: 1/day 3d8. Sucker Punch

yourself, unless you already have 3 Coats of Stuff. The Coat is used as a Reaction. When you are a target of a melee

has the following ability: Your Defense and Special Defense move, use Sucker Punch to attack the attacker before the

are +1 if you have 1 or 2 Coats of Stuff. If you have 3 Coats enemy rolls their Accuracy Check against you. You must

of Stuff, your Defense and Special Defense are +2. These still roll an accuracy check for Sucker Punch.

Coats last for 2 mins.

Sunny Day - Fire Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of

Stomp - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got Sunny Weather with a 60ft diameter. Within the Sunny

18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

weather, Fire-type attacks deal an additional 8 damage and

Stomping Tantrum - Melee Ground Attack: 1/day 3d12. If you missed with your last attack during the last round,

Water-type attacks deal 8 less damage. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

Stomping Tantrum has 5d12 for damage instead.

Super Fang - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day. On hit, the tar-

Stone Axe - Melee Rock Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target get's current HP is halved.

gains a Splinters Coat unless it already has one. The coat Supercell Slam - Melee Electric Attack: 1/day 5d12. Supercell

has the following ability: After acting, roll 1d20; on a result Slam has -2 during Accuracy Check. If you miss, you lose HP

of 16 or better, destroy this coat; otherwise, take 2d4 dam- equal to half of your Max HP.

age. This Coat lasts for 3 mins, or until you are at 0 or less HP.

Superpower - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Attack and Defense is -2 for 10 mins.

Stone Edge - Ranged(25ft) Rock Attack: 1/day 5d12. Stone Edge has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Stone Edge is a critical hit.

Supersonic - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. Supersonic has -8 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.

Storm Throw - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 2d8. Storm Throw has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, Storm Throw always counts as a critical hit and moves the target 5ft

Surf - Ranged(30ft, 10ft wave) Water Special Attack: 1/day 3d12.

away from you.

Swagger - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the tar-

Strange Steam - Ranged(10ft burst) Fairy Special Attack: 3/ day 3d10. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check,

get is Confused and the target's Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.

any targets are Confused.

Swallow - Normal Self Effect: 1/day. Destroy up to 3 of your

Strength - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target is moved 15ft away from you.

Coats of Stuff. For every Coat of Stuff you destroy, Swallow heals you 25 HP.

Strength Sap - Melee Grass Effect: 1/day. On hit, you are healed HP equal to the target's Attack stat, then the target's

Sweet Kiss - Melee Fairy Effect: 3/day. Sweet Kiss has -4 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.

Attack is -2 for 10 mins.

Sweet Scent - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. On hit,

Struggle - Melee Attack: 2d8. Struggle is used if you can't
use any other attacks. Struggle has no type. After use, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of your Max HP.

your next attack against the same target has +1 during Accuracy Check.
Swift - Ranged(20ft) Normal Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. You

Struggle Bug - Ranged(5ft burst) Bug Special Attack: At-Will can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.

2d6. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Switcheroo - Melee Dark Effect: 1/day. On hit, you and the

Stuff Cheeks - Self Normal Effect: At-Will. As a free action, consume your held Berry. Your Defense is +2 for 10 mins.

target trade any held items. If only you or the target has an item, take or give the item to exchange who has possession of it.

Stun Spore - Melee Grass Effect: At-Will. Stun Spore has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Paralyzed.

Synchronoise - Ranged(50ft burst) Psychic Special Attack: 3/ day 5d8. Synchronoise can't hit targets unless they share at

Submission - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you least one type with you.

lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.

Synthesis - Self Grass Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal

Substitute - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Substitute is used as
a Reaction. If you would be hit by an attack that would deal more than 1/6th of your Max HP in damage, use Substitute
to instead ignore the damage and effects of the attack, but also lose HP equal to 1/6th of your Max HP.

to half of your Max HP. If you are within Sunny Weather, you are healed HP equal to 3/4ths of your Max HP instead.
Syrup Bomb - Ranged(15ft) Grass Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Moves - S

746

T
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Tail Slap - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Tail Slap has -2 during Accuracy Check. Tail Slap is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Take Down - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.
Tar Shot - Ranged(20ft) Rock Effect: 3/day. Put a Tar Coat on the target. The Coat has the following ability: Your Speed is -2. If you are hit by a Fire-type attack, you take +8 damage. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.
Taunt - Ranged(20ft) Dark Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target may only use attacks that target you or your allies for 1 min.
Tea Time - Ranged(40ft burst) Normal Effect: 3/day. Any target holding a Berry immediately consumes it.
Teeter Dance - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, all targets are Confused.
Teleport - Ranged(50ft) Psychic Effect: 1/day. Teleport may be used as a Reaction. Teleport moves you up to 50ft away in your line of sight. If an enemy would hit you with a move that deals damage, use Teleport as a Reaction to move up to 50ft away in your line of sight and take only 1/4th the damage you would have taken from the attack.
Temper Flare - Melee Fire Attack: 1/day 3d10. If you missed an attack during your last action, Temper Flare deals +2d10 more damage.
Terrain Pulse - Ranged(25ft) Normal Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. If used while you are in the area of a Terrain effect, Terrain Pulse has 5d8 for damage instead and its type changes to match the terrain.
Thief - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, steals the target's held item, if any.
Thrash - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. Thrash is a twoturn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.
Throat Chop - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target may not use attacks or abilities that require the use of the target's voice for 5 mins.
Thunder - Ranged(30ft, 5ft blast) Electric Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Thunder has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Raining. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the targets are Paralyzed.
Thunder Fang - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is randomly either Stunned or Paralyzed.
Thunder Punch - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Thunder Shock - Ranged(20ft) Electric Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Thunder Wave - Ranged(20ft) Electric Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Paralyzed.
Thunderbolt - Ranged(30ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Tidepools - Water Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Tide Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Pokťmon with the skill Flopper or Beached ignore those skills while acting within Tide Terrain. Tide Terrain does not replace other Terrains nor does it get replaced by other Terrains. This terrain disappears after 5 mins.
Tidy Up - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Field Effect: 3/day. Any Hazards or Coats within range are destroyed. If you destroyed any Hazards or Coats, your Attack is +1 and your Speed is +1 for 10 mins.
Torch Song - Ranged(30ft) Fire Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, your Special Attack is +2 for 10 mins.
Toxic - Melee Poison Effect: 1/day. Toxic has -3 during Accuracy Check, unless the user is Poison type. On hit, the target is Toxified.
Toxic Spikes - Ranged(20ft burst) Poison Effect: 3/day. Place the Toxic Spikes Hazard in the area surrounding you. Toxic Spikes Hazard has the following ability: When a foe moves through Toxic Spikes Hazard during their turn and are on the ground, they are Poisoned. If the Toxic Spikes Hazard has multiple layers, it will Toxify foes instead of Poisoning them instead. This Hazard disappears after 2 mins.
Toxic Thread - Ranged(20ft) Poison Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Poisoned and the target's Speed is -1 until they are no longer Poisoned.
Trailblaze - Melee Grass Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins.
Transform - Ranged(25ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. You transform into a copy of the target changing all of your stats except for HP. You copy its stats, skills, and passives. You can use any of the target's moves. While transformed, you lose access to your regular moves, skills, passives, and biology. Except for stats, this information is not provided to you. Transform may not target Legendary Pokťmon. Transform lasts for 2 hours or until Ditto chooses to change back as an action. Transform fails if used by anything but a Ditto.
Tri Attack - Ranged(20ft) Normal Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is randomly either Paralyzed, Burned, or Frozen.
Trick - Melee Psychic Effect: 1/day. On hit, you and the target trade any held items. If only you or the target has an item, take or give the item to exchange who has possession of it.

Moves - T

747

Trick-or-Treat - Melee Ghost Effect: 3/day. On hit, put a Treat Coat on the target. The Coat has the following ability: You lose your current Types and become only Ghost-type for 10 mins.
Trick Room - Psychic Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Tricky Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Within the Tricky terrain, turn orders are reversed during each round. If some are outside of Tricky terrain while others are within Tricky terrain, all actions are still made in reverse order. This terrain disappears after 2 mins.

Vise Grip - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8.
Victory Dance - Self Fighting Effect: 1/day. Your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, and Special Defense are all +2 for 5 mins.
Vine Whip - Ranged(20ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 2d8.
Vital Throw - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense if the target already acted this round. On hit, move the target away from you 15ft.

Triple Arrows - Ranged(30ft) Fighting Attack: 3/day 1d12. Triple Arrows is a Scatter attack. Up to 3 attacks. Triple Arrow's third attack on hit deals an additional 1d12 damage. On hit, any target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Volt Tackle - Melee Electric Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal and if you
got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Triple Axel - Melee Ice Attack: 3/day 1d12. Triple Axel is a Scatter attack. Up to 3 attacks. Triple Axel's third attack on

W

hit deals an additional 1d12 damage.

Wake-Up Slap - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. If Wake-Up

Triple Dive - Melee Water Attack: 3/day 1d12. Triple Dive is a Scatter attack. Up to 3 attacks. Triple Dive's third attack on hit deals an additional 1d12 damage.

Slap is used against a Sleeping target, Wake-Up Slap deals 5d8 for damage instead, then cures the target of Sleep. If you choose not to roll damage while using Wake-Up Slap, you do not need to roll an Accuracy Check.

Triple Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 1d12. Triple Kick is a Scatter attack. Up to 3 attacks. Triple Kick's third attack on

Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.

hit deals an additional 1d12 damage.

Water Pulse - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Special Attack: 3/day

Trop Kick - Melee Grass Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

3d8. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Twin Beam - Ranged(30ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. Twin Beam is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.

Water Shuriken - Ranged(15ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 1d4. Water Shuriken has Priority and is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Twineedle - Melee Bug Attack: 3/day 2d8. Twineedle is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks. On either hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

Water Sport - Melee Water Effect: At-Will. Put a Water Coat on the target or yourself. The Coat has the following ability: Reduce damage from Fire attacks that hit you by 10. This

Twister - Ranged(15ft) Dragon Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. Coat lasts for 2 mins.

On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target Water Spout - Ranged(30ft burst) Water Special Attack: 1/day

is Stunned.

3d10. If you are at Max HP, Water Spout has 5d12 for dam-

age instead.

U, V
Uproar - Ranged(20ft burst) Normal Special Attack: 1/day 3d10. Uproar is a three-turn move. On each of its turns, you can move normally, then roll Uproar's accuracy check and damage. Sleeping Pokťmon within range of Uproar are awoken and Pokťmon cannot go to Sleep within Uproar's range.
Vacuum Wave - Ranged(15ft) Fighting Special Attack: At-Will 2d6. Vacuum Wave has Priority.
Venom Drench - Ranged(10ft) Poison Effect: 3/day. Venom Drench can only target a Poisoned or Toxified enemy. On hit, the target's Attack, Special Attack, and Speed are -3 for 10 mins.
Venoshock - Ranged(10ft) Poison Special Attack: 3/day 2d10. If the target is Poisoned or Toxified, Venoshock has 4d10 for damage instead.

Waterfall - Melee Water Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Wave Crash- Melee Water Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal. Your Speed is +2 for 10 mins.
Weather Ball - Ranged(25ft) Normal Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. If within weather, Weather Ball has 5d8 for damage instead and its type changes to match the weather.
Whirlpool - Ranged(10ft) Water Special Attack: 3/day 1d4. On hit, the target is bound in place for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 damage on its turns.
Whirlwind - Ranged(20ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, moves the target 60ft away.
Wild Charge - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.

Moves - UVW

748

Will-O-Wisp - Ranged(10ft) Fire Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Burned. Wing Attack - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d8. Wish - Melee Normal Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or yourself. After the target acts during the next round, they are healed HP equal to half of the target's Max HP. Wonder Room - Psychic Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Wonderful Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Anyone who attacks within the Wonderful terrain makes Attack Accuracy Checks against Special Defense and Special Attack Accuracy Checks against Defense. This terrain disappears after 2 mins. Wood Hammer - Melee Grass Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal. Wrap - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 damage on its turns.
X, Y, Z X-Scissor - Melee Bug Attack: 3/day 3d10. Yawn - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target falls Asleep after its next turn. Zap Cannon - Ranged(30ft) Electric Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Zap Cannon has ≠5 during Accuracy Check. On hit the target is Paralyzed. Zen Headbutt - Melee Psychic Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned. Zing Zap - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
749

Moves - WXYZ

Proficiency Group Lists Type Groups

The following lists are move groupings that match up to

The first proficiency groups are type groups. It should

the Pokťdex. Each Pokťmon family in the Pokťdex has a list of proficiencies that match up to the groupings found

be noted that not every move is in its type's grouping, such as the Water-type signature move Water Shuriken. It

here. Each group is explained here and lists moves that can be learned by HM, TM, or TR, or potentially taught by a tu-

should also be noted that some moves will appear in type lists that are different from its own, such as Smoke Screen,

tor you encounter on your journey. Not every tutor knows how to teach all moves from any given group, and some

a Normal-type move, appearing in both the Fire and Poison lists.

tutors might have moves that they can teach across a wide

spectrum of groups. It should be noted that parents can

still potentially pass down unusual moves that do not

match to any Pokťmon's proficiencies.

All over the world are various Move Tutors who have specialized in training to teach specific moves to Pokťmon. While any player may match a tutor's ability to teach a specific move, many tutors are vetted and certified by tutoring unions. For this reason, you can find some established tutors in almost any city. While a Technical Machine or Technical Record can do the same thing for a Pokťmon and teach it a new move, Tutors are often a little cheaper than any teaching machine.

Bug List

Acid Spray - Ranged(20ft) Poison Special Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Bug Bite - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if the target is holding a Berry, you steal it and immediately consume it.
Bug Buzz - Ranged(20ft) Bug Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Fell Stinger - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d8. If you knock out a target with Fell Stinger, your Attack is +2 for 10 mins.
Fury Cutter - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Fury Cutter against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Fury Cutter's damage.
Infestation - Ranged(20ft) Bug Special Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, the target is bound in place for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 damage on its turns.
Leech Life - Melee Bug Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Lunge - Melee Bug Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Attack is -1 for 10 mins.
Megahorn - Melee Bug Attack: 1/day 5d12.
Pin Missile - Ranged(10ft) Bug Attack: At-Will 1d4. Pin Missile has -2 during Accuracy Check. Pin Missile is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Poison Sting - Melee Poison Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.
Pounce - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Proficiency Lists

750

Signal Beam - Ranged(15ft beam) Bug Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Confused.
Silver Wind - Ranged(10ft) Bug Special Attack: 1/day 2d8. On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour.
Skitter Smack - Melee Bug Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.
Struggle Bug - Ranged(5ft burst) Bug Special Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.
Struggling Bug ≠ Ranged(20ft) Bug Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Sucker Punch - Melee Dark Attack: 1/day 3d8. Sucker Punch is used as a Reaction. When you are a target of a melee move, use Sucker Punch to attack the attacker before the enemy rolls their Accuracy Check against you. You must still roll an accuracy check for Sucker Punch.
Thief - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, steals the target's held item, if any.
Throat Chop - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target may not use attacks or abilities that require the use of the target's voice for 5 mins.
Void Fury - Melee Dark Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Defense and Special Defense are -2 for 10 mins.

Venoshock - Ranged(10ft) Poison Special Attack: 3/day 2d10.
Dragon List If the target is Poisoned or Toxified, Venoshock has 4d10
for damage instead.

Dark List

Draco Meteor - Ranged(20ft, 10ft blast) Dragon Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. After use, your Special Attack is -4 for 10 mins.

Assurance - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target was already attacked this round, Assurance deals +1d8 damage.

Dragon Breath - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Dragon Rage - Ranged(5ft) Dragon Special Attack: 3/day 25. Do not add bonuses of any kind to this damage.

Brutal Hit - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Dragon Rush - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 3d10. Dragon

Brutal Swing - Melee(5ft burst) Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8.

Rush has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 16 or

Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Dragon Tail - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, move

Dark Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dark Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. the target 40ft away.

On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target Dual Chop - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 2d8. Dual Chop is a

is Stunned.

Scatter attack. It has two attacks.

Feint Attack - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense.
Knock Off - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target drops any held items or weapons.
Lash Out - Melee Dark Attack: 1/day 3d12. If your stats were lowered this round by the target, use 6d12 for damage instead.
Night Slash - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Night Slash is a critical hit.
Payback - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. If you were attacked by the target this round, use 3d12 for damage instead.

Outrage - Melee Dragon Attack: 1/day 5d12. Outrage is a two-turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.
Scale Shot - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Attack: At-Will 1d4. Scale Shot has -2 during Accuracy Check. Scale Shot is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Twister - Ranged(15ft) Dragon Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Twisting Gust - Ranged(20ft) Dragon Special Attack: At-Will 1d12.

Punishment - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 2d10. Punishment deals an additional 1d10 damage for each Stat Passive the target has.

Snarl - Melee(5ft burst) Dark Special Attack: At-Will 1d8. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Proficiency Lists

751

Electric List
Charge - Self Electric Effect: At-Will. Your next Electric attack will deal +2d8 damage. Until then, your Special Defense is +1. This effect wears off after one min.
Charge Beam - Ranged(10ft beam) Electric Special Attack: AtWill 1d12. On hit, your Special Attack is +1 for 10 mins.
Discharge - Ranged(10ft burst) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Paralyzed.
Electric Terrain - Electric Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Electrified Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Anyone touching the ground within the Electrified terrain is immune to being put to Sleep. Within the Electrified Terrain, Electric-type attacks deal an additional 8 damage. This terrain disappears after 2 mins.
Electro Ball - Ranged(15ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. Electro Ball can only be used against targets slower than you.

Thunderbolt - Ranged(30ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Wild Charge - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.
Zap Cannon - Ranged(30ft) Electric Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Zap Cannon has ≠5 during Accuracy Check. On hit the target is Paralyzed.
Fairy List
Dazzling Gleam - Ranged(15ft, 10ft wave) Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 3d8.
Disarming Voice - Ranged(10ft) Fairy Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.
Draining Kiss - Melee Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Flash - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. On hit, the tar- Fairy Wind - Ranged(20ft) Fairy Special Attack: At-Will 1d12.

get's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.

Misty Terrain - Fairy Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle

Magnet Rise - Self Electric Effect: 3/day. You gain an immun- of Misty Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Within the Misty ter-

ity to Ground type attacks and gain a flight movement

rain, Dragon-type attacks are resisted by anyone who is not

speed equal to half your land speed for two mins.

already resistant to Dragon-type attacks and afflictions can-

Rising Voltage - Ranged(30ft) Electric Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. If you are within Electric Terrain while using Rising

not be given to anyone. This terrain disappears after 2 mins.

Voltage, it deals +2d12 damage on hit.

Moonblast - Ranged(20ft) Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Shock Wave - Ranged(20ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense. Moonwrecker - Ranged(20ft, 10ft blast) Fairy Special Attack:

Spark - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 1/day 5d12. After use, your Special Attack is -4 for 10 mins.

or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Play Rough - Melee Fairy Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the tar-

Supercell Slam - Melee Electric Attack: 1/day 5d12. Supercell get's Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Slam has -2 during Accuracy Check. If you miss, you lose HP Sweet Scent - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. On hit,

equal to half of your Max HP.

your next attack against the same target has +1 during Ac-

Thunder - Ranged(30ft, 5ft blast) Electric Special Attack: 1/day curacy Check.

5d12. Thunder has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's

Sweet Kiss - Melee Fairy Effect: 3/day. Sweet Kiss has -4 dur-

Raining. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, ing Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.

the targets are Paralyzed.

Thunder Fang - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is randomly either Stunned or Paralyzed.

Thunder Punch - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Proficiency Lists

Thunder Shock - Ranged(20ft) Electric Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Thunder Spark - Ranged(20ft) Electric Special Attack: At-Will 1d12.

Thunder Wave - Ranged(20ft) Electric Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Paralyzed.

752

Fighting List
Aura Sphere - Ranged(30ft) Fighting Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. You can't miss targets with less than 20 Special Defense.
Brick Break - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. Destroy any Walls within 5 ft. You may target Walls with Brick Break without needing to roll Accuracy Check or damage.
Close Combat - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Defense and Special Defense are -2 for 10 mins.
Coaching - Melee Fighting Effect: 3/day. Target ally has +2 Attack and +2 Defense for 2 mins.
Counter - Melee Fighting Effect: 1/day. Counter is used as a Reaction. After an enemy hits you with a melee Attack move that deals damage, use Counter to deal exactly twice the damage to the enemy that you received. Do not apply weakness or resistances.
Cross Chop - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. Cross Chop has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, Cross Chop is a critical hit.

Karate Chop - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Karate Chop is a critical hit.
Karate Slap - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Low Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d10. Low Kick can only target heavier targets.
Low Sweep - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Mach Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. Mach Punch has Priority.
Power-Up Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.
Revenge - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. If you were attacked by the target this round, use 3d12 for damage instead.
Reversal - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 1d10. If you are at less than half of your Max HP, Reversal has 1d20 for damage instead. If you are at less than 5 HP, Reversal has 5d12 for damage instead.

Detect - Self Fighting Effect: 1/day. Detect is used as a Reaction. When you would be hit by a move, use Detect to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack.
Double Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 2d8. Double Kick is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.
Drain Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Dynamic Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. Dynamic Punch has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.
Final Gambit - Melee Fighting Special Attack: 1/day. On hit, your HP is set to 0, dealing damage equal to the HP you lost.
Focus Blast - Ranged(30ft) Fighting Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Focus Blast has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Focus Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 5d12. Focus Punch is a two-turn move. On the first turn: if anyone hits you before your next turn, you are Stunned. On the second turn, move up to twice your movement speed, then roll Focus Punch's Accuracy Check and damage.
Force Palm - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Rock Smash - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Rolling Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned
Seismic Toss - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 25. Do not add bonuses of any kind to this damage.
Submission - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.
Superpower - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Attack and Defense is -2 for 10 mins.
Vacuum Wave - Ranged(15ft) Fighting Special Attack: At-Will 2d6. Vacuum Wave has Priority.
Vital Throw - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense if the target already acted this round. On hit, move the target away from you 15ft.
Wake-Up Slap - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. If Wake-Up Slap is used against a Sleeping target, Wake-Up Slap deals 5d8 for damage instead, then cures the target of Sleep. If you choose not to roll damage while using Wake-Up Slap, you do not need to roll an Accuracy Check.

High Jump Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. High Jump Kick has -2 during Accuracy Check. If you miss, you lose HP equal to half of your Max HP.

Jump Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d10. Jump Kick has -2 during Accuracy Check. If you miss, you lose HP equal to half of your Max HP.

Proficiency Lists

753

Fire List

Smoke Screen - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. Place up to 25 contiguous ft of Smoke Screen Wall. Smoke Screen

Clear Smog - Ranged(5ft burst) Poison Special Attack: At-Will Wall has no thickness, is 12 ft tall and has the following

1d12.

ability: Attacks that target through or within the wall have -

2 during Accuracy Check. This Wall disappears after 2 mins.

Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit,

if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is

Solar Beam - Ranged(30ft beam) Grass Special Attack: 1/day

Burned.

5d12. Solar Beam is a two-turn move unless it is Sunny. On

the first turn, do nothing. On the second turn or if it is Sun-

Emberish - Ranged(20ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12.

ny, roll Solar Beam's Accuracy Check and damage.

Fire Blast - Ranged(40ft, 10ft blast) Fire Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Fire Blast has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Sunny. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the targets are Burned.

Sunny Day - Fire Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Sunny Weather with a 60ft diameter. Within the Sunny weather, Fire-type attacks deal an additional 8 damage and Water-type attacks deal 8 less damage. This weather disap-

Fire Punch - Melee Fire Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got pears after 2 mins.

17 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

Temper Flare - Melee Fire Attack: 1/day 3d10. If you missed

Fire Spin - Ranged(20ft) Fire Special Attack: 3/day 1d4. On hit, the target is bound in place for 1d4 rounds. For each

an attack during your last action, Temper Flare deals +2d10 more damage.

round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 damage on its turns. Will-O-Wisp - Ranged(10ft) Fire Effect: 1/day. On hit, the tar-

Flame Burst - Ranged(20ft, 5ft blast) Fire Special Attack: 3/ get is Burned.

day 3d8.

Flying List Flame Charge - Melee Fire Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, your
Speed is +1 for 10 mins.

Flame Wheel - Melee Fire Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you Aerial Ace - Melee Flying Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned. targets with less than 15 Defense.

Flamethrower - Ranged(20ft beam) Fire Special Attack: 3/day Air Cutter - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: At-Will 2d8.

3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the Air Cutter has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got

target is Burned.

18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Air Cutter is a critical hit.

Flare Blitz - Melee Fire Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal and if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.
Flash - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.
Heat Wave - Ranged(25ft burst) Fire Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, targets are Burned.
Incinerate - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if the target is holding a Berry, you destroy it.
Inferno - Ranged(40ft) Fire Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Inferno has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Burned.
Lava Plume - Ranged(20ft burst) Fire Special Attack: 1/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, targets are burned.
Overheat - Ranged(30ft burst) Fire Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. After use, your Special Attack is -4 for 10 mins.
Scorching Sands - Ranged(10ft) Ground Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.
Smog - Ranged(5ft) Poison Special Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you got 13 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

Air Dart - Ranged(10ft) Flying Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Air Slash - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. Air Slash has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Bounce - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Bounce is a twoturn move. On the first turn, raise yourself 40 ft into the air. On the second turn, return to the ground, move up to twice your movement rate, then you may roll Bounce's Accuracy Check and damage. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Defog - Ranged(30ft burst) Flying Field Effect: 3/day. Any Walls, Hazards, Weather, or Terrains within range are destroyed.
Fly - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Fly is a two-turn move. On the first turn, fly up to 40 ft straight up. On the second turn, fly up to your movement speed +40 ft, then you can roll Fly's Accuracy Check and damage.
Gust - Ranged(20ft) Flying Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. If the target is at least 20 ft off the ground airborne, Gust deals +1d20 damage.
Hurricane - Ranged(25ft, 10ft blast) Flying Special Attack: 1/ day 5d12. Hurricane has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Raining. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the targets are Confused.

Proficiency Lists

754

Grass List Sky Drop - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. When you use
this attack, you raise yourself and an adjacent target 40 ft

into the air, then you immediately end your turn. The target Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you

may only make melee attacks until your next turn. During regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

your next turn, you return to the ground, letting go of the

target and you may roll Sky Drop's Accuracy Check and

Bullet Seed - Ranged(10ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 1d4. Bullet

damage.

Seed has -2 during Accuracy Check. Bullet Seed is a Scatter

attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Whirlwind - Ranged(20ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit,

moves the target 60ft away.

Energy Ball - Ranged(20ft) Grass Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.

On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Wing Attack - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d8.

Giga Drain - Melee Grass Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit,

you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Ghost List
Astonish - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Confuse Ray - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target becomes Confused.
Curse - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. Curse can only be used by Ghost-Type Pokťmon. On hit, you lose hit points equal to 1/3rd of your max HP, then the target is Cursed.

Grass Knot - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. Grass Knot can only target heavier targets.
Grassy Glide - Melee Grass Attack: 3/day 3d8. Grassy Glide has priority if you're in Grassy Terrain.
Grassy Terrain - Grass Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Grassy Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Anyone who acts within the Grassy terrain recovers 1d12 HP after acting. Within the Grassy Terrain, Grass-type attacks deal an additional 8 damage. This terrain disappears after 2 mins.

Destiny Bond - Self Ghost Effect: 1/day. If you are knocked Leaf Blade - Melee Grass Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you

out before your next turn, the offender who caused you to got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Leaf Blade is a critical

get knocked out has its HP set to 0.

hit. (Has leaves on their body)

Hex - Ranged(15ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the tar- Leaf Storm - Ranged(30ft beam) Grass Special Attack: 1/day

get is afflicted, Hex has 5d8 for damage instead.

5d12. After use, your Special Attack is -4 for 10 mins.

Lick - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d8. On hit, if you got 15 or Leafage - Ranged(20ft) Grass Special Attack: At-Will 1d12.

higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Leech Seed - Ranged(10ft) Grass Effect: 1/day. On hit, the

Night Shade - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 20. target gets a Seed Coat. The Coat has the following ability:

Do not add bonuses of any kind to this damage.

At the beginning of your turn, if you are within 20 ft of the

Ominous Wind - Ranged(10ft) Ghost Special Attack: 1/day 2d8. On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour.

enemy who gave you the Seed Coat, you lose 1d12 HP. The enemy who gave you the Seed Coat will gain the same amount of HP that you lost. This Coat lasts for 3 mins, or until you are at 0 or less HP.

Phantom Force - Melee Ghost Attack: 1/day 3d12. Phantom Force is a two-turn move. On the first turn, disappear from the battlefield. On the second turn, reappear anywhere

Magical Leaf - Ranged(25ft) Grass Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.

within 25 ft of where you vanished, move up to twice your Mega Drain - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d10. On hit,

movement speed, and roll Phantom Force's Accuracy Check you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

and damage.

Poison Powder - Melee Poison Effect: At-Will. Poison Powder

Poltergeist - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Attack: 1/day 5d12. Polter- has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Poi-

geist can only be used if the target has a held item.

soned.

Shadow Ball - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Shadow Claw - Melee Ghost Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Shadow Claw is a critical hit.
Shadow Sneak - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 2d6. Shadow Sneak has Priority.

Razor Leaf - Ranged(25ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Razor Leaf is a critical hit.
Seed Bomb - Ranged(15ft) Grass Attack: 3/day 3d10.
Sleep Powder - Melee Grass Effect: At-Will. Sleep Powder has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is put to Sleep.

Spook - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Terrify - Ranged(25ft) Ghost Special Attack: At-Will 1d12.

Proficiency Lists

755

Grass List Continued

Sand Tomb - Ranged(10ft) Ground Attack: 3/day 1d4. On

hit, the target is bound in place for 1d4 rounds. For each

Solar Beam - Ranged(30ft beam) Grass Special Attack: 1/day round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 damage on its

5d12. Solar Beam is a two-turn move unless it is Sunny. turns.

On the first turn, do nothing. On the second turn or if it is

Sunny, roll Solar Beam's Accuracy Check and damage.

Sandstorm - Rock Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of

Sandstorming Weather with a 60ft diameter. Anyone who

Stun Spore - Melee Grass Effect: At-Will. Stun Spore has -5 acts within the Sandstorming weather takes 2d4 damage

during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Paralyzed.

after acting unless they are Rock-type, Ground-type, or

Sunny Day - Fire Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Steel-type. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

Sunny Weather with a 60ft diameter. Within the Sunny

Scorching Sands - Ranged(10ft) Ground Special Attack: 3/

weather, Fire-type attacks deal an additional 8 damage

day 3d10. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy

and Water-type attacks deal 8 less damage. This weather Check, the target is Burned.

disappears after 2 mins.

Spikes - Ranged(20ft burst) Ground Effect: 3/day. Place the

Sweet Scent - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. On hit, Spikes Hazard in the area surrounding you. Spikes Hazard

your next attack against the same target has +1 during

has the following ability: When a foe moves through

Accuracy Check.

Spikes Hazard during their turn and are on the ground,

Synthesis - Self Grass Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP. If you are within Sunny

they lose 1/6th of their Max HP. This Hazard disappears after 2 mins.

Weather, you are healed HP equal to 3/4ths of your Max HP Stomping Tantrum - Melee Ground Attack: 1/day 3d12. If

instead.

you missed with your last attack during the last round,

Stomping Tantrum has 5d12 for damage instead.

Ground List Ice List
Bulldoze - Ranged(20ft burst) Ground Attack: 3/day 3d8. On

hit, all target's Speed are -1 for 10 mins.

Aurora Beam - Ranged(15ft beam) Ice Special Attack: 3/day

Dig - Melee Ground Attack: 3/day 3d10. Dig is a two-turn

3d8. On hit, all target's Attack are -1 for 10 mins.

move. On the first turn, burrow up to 40 ft straight down. On the second turn, burrow up to your movement speed +40 ft, then you can roll Dig's Accuracy Check and damage.

Aurora Veil - Melee Ice Effect: 1/day. Put a Veil Coat on the target or yourself. The Coat has the following ability: If within Hail, you only take half the damage from successful attacks after applying weakness and resistances. This Coat

Earth Power - Ranged(15ft) Ground Special Attack: 3/day lasts for 2 mins.

3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins. Avalanche - Melee Ice Attack: 3/day 3d8. If you were at-

Earthquake - Ranged(30ft burst) Ground Attack: 1/day 3d12.

tacked by the target this round, use 3d12 for damage instead.

Mud Bomb - Ranged(10ft) Ground Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. Blizzard - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Ice Special Attack: 1/day

On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their

5d12. Blizzard has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's

next turn.

Hailing. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check,

the targets are Frozen.

Mud Shot - Ranged(10ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 2d8.

On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Chilling Water ≠ Ranged(30ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will

2d6. On hit, the target's Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Mud Sport - Melee Ground Effect: At-Will. Put a Mud Coat on the target or yourself. The Coat has the following ability: Reduce damage from Electric attacks that hit you by 10. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

Ice Spinner - Melee Ice Attack: 3/day 3d8. Destroy any Terrain effects that you move through while using Ice Spinner. You may target Terrain with Ice Spinner without needing to roll Accuracy Check or damage.

Mud Throw - Ranged(20ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Freeze-Dry - Ranged(10ft) Ice Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. Freeze-Dry is Super effective against Water types. On hit, if

Mud-Slap - Ranged(5ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 1d6. you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Fro-

On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their

zen.

next turn.

Frost Breath - Ranged(10ft) Ice Special Attack: 3/day 2d8.

Frost Breath has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, Frost

Breath always counts as a critical hit.

Proficiency Lists

756

Hail - Ice Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Hailing Weather with a 60ft diameter. Anyone who acts within the Hailing weather takes 2d4 damage after acting unless they are Ice Type. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

Poison List
Acid Spray - Ranged(20ft) Poison Special Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Haze - Ice Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Hazy Weather with a 60ft diameter. Within the Hazy weather, all stat altering passives are disabled. Stats cannot be altered by anything within the Hazy weather. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

Clear Smog - Ranged(5ft burst) Poison Special Attack: At-Will 1d12.
Clearing Smog - Ranged(20ft) Poison Special Attack: At-Will 1d12.

Ice Beam - Ranged(20ft beam) Ice Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. Corrosive Gas - Melee Poison Effect: 3/day. On hit, destroy

On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target the target's held item, if any. Corrosive Gas cannot destroy

is Frozen.

Mega Stones.

Ice Shard - Ranged(15ft) Ice Attack: At-Will 2d6. Ice Shard

Cross Poison - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you

has Priority.

got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Cross Poison is a criti-

cal hit and the target is Poisoned.

Icicle Crash - Ranged(15ft) Ice Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if

you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is

Gunk Shot - Ranged(20ft, 10ft blast) Poison Attack: 1/day

Stunned.

5d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, all

targets are Poisoned.

Icicle Spear - Ranged(10ft) Ice Attack: At-Will 1d4. Icicle

Spear has -2 during Accuracy Check. Icicle Spear is a Scatter Poison Fang - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, if you

attack. Up to 5 attacks.

got 10 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Toxified.

Icy Breeze - Ranged(20ft) Ice Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Poison Gas - Ranged(5ft burst) Poison Effect: 3/day. Poison

Gas has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, all targets are

Icy Wind - Ranged(10ft) Ice Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, Poisoned.

the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Poison Sting - Melee Poison Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you

Mirror Coat - Ranged(40ft) Psychic Effect: 1/day. Mirror Coat got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

is used as a Reaction. After an enemy hits you with a

ranged Special Attack move that deals damage, use Mirror Sludge Bomb - Ranged(25ft, 5ft blast) Poison Special Attack:

Coat to deal exactly twice the damage to the enemy that 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy

you received. Do not apply weakness or resistances.

Check, all targets are Poisoned.

Mist - Ice Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Misty Weather with a 60ft diameter. Within the Misty weather, Stats cannot be lowered. This weather disappears after 2 mins.
Powder Snow - Ranged(5ft burst) Ice Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.
Snowscape - Ice Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Snowing Weather with a 60ft diameter. Any Ice Types within Snowing Weather have +2 Defense. Pokťmon who benefit from Hailing weather with passives or the effect of moves they use also benefit from those effects in Snowing Weather. This weather disappears after 2 mins.
Triple Axel - Melee Ice Attack: 3/day 1d12. Triple Axel is a Scatter attack. Up to 3 attacks. Triple Axel's third attack on hit deals an additional 1d12 damage. (Needs legs)

Sludge Wave - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Poison Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Poisoned.
Smog - Ranged(5ft) Poison Special Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you got 13 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.
Smoke Screen - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. Place up to 25 contiguous ft of Smoke Screen Wall. Smoke Screen Wall has no thickness, is 12 ft tall and has the following ability: Attacks that target through or within the wall have 2 during Accuracy Check. This Wall disappears after 2 mins.
Sweet Scent - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. On hit, your next attack against the same target has +1 during Accuracy Check.
Toxic - Melee Poison Effect: 1/day. Toxic has -3 during Accuracy Check, unless the user is Poison type. On hit, the target is Toxified.

Proficiency Lists

757

Poison List Continued
Toxic Spikes - Ranged(20ft burst) Poison Effect: 3/day. Place the Toxic Spikes Hazard in the area surrounding you. Toxic Spikes Hazard has the following ability: When a foe moves through Toxic Spikes Hazard during their turn and are on the ground, they are Poisoned. If the Toxic Spikes Hazard has multiple layers, it will Toxify foes instead of Poisoning them instead. This Hazard disappears after 2 mins.
Venom Drench - Ranged(10ft) Poison Effect: 3/day. Venom Drench can only target a Poisoned or Toxified enemy. On hit, the target's Attack, Special Attack, and Speed are -3 for 10 mins.
Venoshock - Ranged(10ft) Poison Special Attack: 3/day 2d10. If the target is Poisoned or Toxified, Venoshock has 4d10 for damage instead.

Magic Room - Psychic Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Magical Terrain with a 60ft diameter. If within the Magical terrain, Pokťmon cannot use any held items. This terrain disappears after 2 mins.
Mirror Coat - Ranged(40ft) Psychic Effect: 1/day. Mirror Coat is used as a Reaction. After an enemy hits you with a ranged Special Attack move that deals damage, use Mirror Coat to deal exactly twice the damage to the enemy that you received. Do not apply weakness or resistances.
Psionic Fury - Ranged(20ft) Psychic Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Defense and Special Defense are -2 for 10 mins.
Psybeam - Ranged(15ft beam) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On

Psychic List

hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins. Psychic Terrain - Psychic Field Effect: 3/day. You create a

Ally Switch - Self Psychic Effect: 1/day. Ally Switch is used as a Reaction. When you would be hit by an attack, use Ally Switch to instead switch places with a willing ally within 60ft. That ally is hit by the attack instead of you.

circle of Psychic Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Characters touching the ground within the Psychic Terrain are immune to damage dealt by Reaction moves or moves used during Priority turns. Within the Psychic Terrain, Psychic-type attacks deal an additional 8 damage This terrain disappears

Confusion - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. after 2 mins.

On hit, if you got 19 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target

is Confused.

Psycho Cut - Ranged(20ft) Psychic Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit,

if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Psycho Cut is a

Confusioning - Ranged(20ft) Psychic Special Attack: At-Will critical hit.

1d12.

Psyshock - Ranged(20ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Dream Eater - Melee Psychic Special Attack: 1/day 5d12.

Psyshock's Accuracy Check is made against the target's De-

Dream Eater can only hit Sleeping targets. On hit, you re- fense.

gain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Reflect - Melee Psychic Effect: 3/day. Put a Reflect Coat on

Expanding Force - Ranged(30ft) Psychic Special Attack: 1/day the target or yourself. The Coat has the following ability:

3d12. If you are within Psychic Terrain while using Expand- Reduce damage from attacks that use the attack stat that

ing Force, it deals +2d12 damage on hit.

hit you by 10. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

Extrasensory - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Future Sight - Ranged(30ft) Psychic Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. When you use this attack you immediately end your turn. In two rounds, select any target within 30ft of you to target with Future Sight then you may roll Future Sight's Accuracy Check and damage.
Gravity - Psychic Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Gravity Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Within the terrain, Pokťmon may not leave the ground and any Pokťmon that are in the air are brought down to the ground. This terrain disappears after 2 mins.
Light Screen - Ranged(30ft) Psychic Effect: 3/day. Place 40ft of contiguous Light Screen Wall. Light Screen Wall is see through, 12 ft tall, and has the following ability: Special Attacks that target through this wall deal 10 less damage after applying weakness and resistance. This Wall disappears after 2 mins.

Teleport - Ranged(50ft) Psychic Effect: 1/day. Teleport may be used as a Reaction. Teleport moves you up to 50ft away in your line of sight. If an enemy would hit you with a move that deals damage, use Teleport as a Reaction to move up to 50ft away in your line of sight and take only 1/4th the damage you would have taken from the attack.
Trick - Melee Psychic Effect: 1/day. On hit, you and the target trade any held items. If only you or the target has an item, take or give the item to exchange who has possession of it.
Trick Room - Psychic Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Tricky Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Within the Tricky terrain, turn orders are reversed during each round. If some are outside of Tricky terrain while others are within Tricky terrain, all actions are still made in reverse order. This terrain disappears after 2 mins.

Proficiency Lists

758

Wonder Room - Psychic Field Effect: 3/day. You create a cir- Stone Edge - Ranged(25ft) Rock Attack: 1/day 5d12. Stone cle of Wonderful Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Anyone who Edge has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18 or attacks within the Wonderful terrain makes Attack Accuracy higher on Accuracy Check, Stone Edge is a critical hit. Checks against Special Defense and Special Attack Accuracy

Checks against Defense. This terrain disappears after 2 mins.

Steel List

Zen Headbutt - Melee Psychic Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Bullet Punch - Melee Steel Attack: At-Will 2d6. Bullet Punch has Priority. (Must have arms)

Rock List

Flash Cannon - Ranged(20ft) Steel Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Gyro Ball - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. Gyro Ball can on-

Ancient Power - Ranged(10ft) Rock Special Attack: 1/day 2d8. ly target faster targets.

On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special De-

Heavy Slam - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. Heavy Slam

fense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour.

can only target lighter targets.

Head Smash - Melee Rock Attack: 1/day 7d12. On hit, you Iron Head - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got

lose HP equal to half of the damage you deal. Head Smash 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

has -2 during Accuracy Check.

Iron Tail - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. Iron Tail has -2

Meteor Beam - Ranged(30ft beam) Rock Special Attack: 1/day during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for

5d12. Meteor Beam is a two-turn move. On the first turn, 10 mins. (Must have a tail)

do nothing. On the second turn, you have +4 to Special Attack this turn, then you may roll Meteor Beam's Accuracy

Metal Cut - Melee Steel Attack: At-Will 2d6.

Check and damage.

Metal Burst - Ranged(40ft) Steel Effect: 1/day. Metal Burst is

Power Gem - Ranged(20ft) Rock Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.

used as a Reaction. After an enemy within range hits you with a move that deals damage, use Metal Burst to deal

Rock Blast - Ranged(10ft) Rock Attack: At-Will 1d4. Rock Blast exactly 1.5x the damage to the enemy that you received.

has -2 during Accuracy Check. Rock Blast is a Scatter attack. Do not apply weakness or resistances.

Up to 5 attacks.

Meteor Rain - Ranged(20ft, 10ft blast) Steel Special Attack: 1/

Rock Slide - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Rock Attack: 1/day 5d12. day 5d12. After use, your Special Attack is -4 for 10 mins.

Rock Slide has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Mirror Coat - Ranged(40ft) Psychic Effect: 1/day. Mirror Coat is used as a Reaction. After an enemy hits you with a

Rock Throw - Ranged(20ft) Rock Attack: At-Will 2d6.

ranged Special Attack move that deals damage, use Mirror

Rock Tomb - Ranged(15ft) Rock Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Coat to deal exactly twice the damage to the enemy that you received. Do not apply weakness or resistances.

Rollout - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Rollout against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Rollout's damage.

Sandstorm - Rock Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Sandstorming Weather with a 60ft diameter. Anyone who acts within the Sandstorming weather takes 2d4 damage after acting unless they are Rock-type, Ground-type, or

Sandstorm - Rock Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Steel-type. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

Sandstorming Weather with a 60ft diameter. Anyone who acts within the Sandstorming weather takes 2d4 damage after acting unless they are Rock-type, Ground-type, or

Steel Beam - Ranged(30ft) Steel Special Attack: 1/day 7d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to half of the damage you deal.

Steel-type. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

Steel Roller - Melee Steel Attack: 1/day 5d12. Steel Roller can

Smack Down - Ranged(25ft) Rock Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, Smack Down knocks the target out of the air, removing any

only be used if you are in the area of a Terrain move, and destroys that Terrain when used.

Ground-type immunities and disabling the target's ability to

move in the air for 2 mins.

Stealth Rock - Ranged(5ft) Rock Effect: 3/day. Place a Stealth Rock Hazard adjacent to you. Stealth Rock Hazard has the following ability: If a foe moves within 20 ft of Stealth Rock Hazard, it will hurl itself at the foe, destroying itself and dealing 2d12 Rock-type damage to the foe without needing an Accuracy Check. This Hazard disappears after 2 mins.

Proficiency Lists

759

Water List
Aqua Jet - Melee Water Attack: At-Will 2d6. Aqua Jet has Priority.
Aqua Ring - Self Water Effect: 1/day. Put a Ring Coat on yourself. The Coat has the following ability: At the beginning of your turn, recover 1d10 HP. This Coat lasts for 1 min. If it's raining, the Coat lasts for 2 mins.
Aqua Tail - Melee Water Attack: 1/day 3d12.

Water Sport - Melee Water Effect: At-Will. Put a Water Coat on the target or yourself. The Coat has the following ability: Reduce damage from Fire attacks that hit you by 10. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.
Waterfall - Melee Water Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Whirlpool - Ranged(10ft) Water Special Attack: 3/day 1d4. On hit, the target is bound in place for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 damage on its turns.

Brine - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the
Move Groups target is at less than half of their Max HP, Brine has 5d8 for
damage instead.

Bubble - Ranged(15ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Bubble Beam - Ranged(20ft beam) Water Special Attack: 3/ day 3d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

The remaining move groups are grouped by themes. Sometimes the group is defined by the kind of attack, such as the Punches group, and other times the group is defined by the type of Pokťmon who can used those moves, like the Draconian move list. Each group will likely have a wide

Chilling Water ≠ Ranged(30ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, the target's Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

spectrum of types of moves. Each group here will have a short description to help players and GMs determine if a

Pokťmon qualifies for a specific move. Even if it appears on

Dive - Melee Water Attack: 3/day 3d10. Dive is a two-turn

a move list and a Pokťmon has that proficiency sometimes

move. On the first turn, swim up to 40 ft straight down, and it'll still not make any sense≠ a Pokťmon without a tail

water is hindering terrain on foe's attacks against you until would not used Dragon Tail.

your next turn. On the second turn, swim up to your move-

ment speed +40 ft, then you can roll Dive's Accuracy Check

The first group is the Any list. It needs no specific in-

and damage.
Hydro Pump - Ranged(30ft beam) Water Special Attack: 1/ day 5d12. Hydro Pump has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Raining.

structions. Regardless of the rarity a GM may assign to an NPC tutor who teaches one of these moves, any Pokťmon can learn from the Any List. Some entries have limitations in bolded parenthesis. The remaining lists are sorted alphabetically, but end with the Signature List. Each grouping has

Liquidation - Ranged(10ft) Water Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, a short summary of its contents for determine compatibil-

the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

ity with altered Pokťmon or even original monsters.

Muddy Water - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Water Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, any target's Accuracy Checks are -2 during their next turn.
Rain Dance - Water Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Raining Weather with a 60ft diameter. Within the Raining weather, Water-type attacks deal an additional 8 damage and Fire-type attacks deal 8 less damage. This weather disappears after 2 mins.
Scald - Ranged(10ft) Water Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned. Scald can Burn Fire-types.
Soak - Melee Water Effect: 3/day. On hit, put a Soak Coat on the target. The Coat has the following ability: You lose your current Types and become only Water-type for 10 mins.

Any Avian Bruiser Cutesy Draconian Energy Blast Elemental Attack Fangs Floral Glutton

Magnetism Munition Normal Block Parasitic Piscian Prickly Pulse Slashing Sound Spellcraft

Surf - Ranged(30ft, 10ft wave) Water Special Attack: 1/day 3d12.
Water Gun - Ranged(20ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Water Pulse - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Hexwork Healer Horned Lepidopteran Martial (Punches, Kicks)

Stampeding Tricky Weather Weird Winged

Proficiency Lists

760

Any List

Flail - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 1d10. If you are at less than half of your Max HP, Flail has 1d20 for damage in-

After You - Ranged(20ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. For the rest of stead. If you are at less than 5 HP, Flail has 5d12 for dam-

the encounter, your turn will be after the target's turn.

age instead.

Ancient Power - Ranged(10ft) Rock Special Attack: 1/day 2d8. Foresight - Self Normal Effect: At-Will. You can hit Ghost-

On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special De-

types with Normal and Fighting type moves as if they are

fense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour. (At least 8 not immune to those types of attacks for two mins.

in Attack or Special Attack)

Frustration - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Frustration

Attract - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the tar- can only be used if you have less than 1 loyalty.

get is Infatuated with you.

Fury Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Fury Attack

Bide - Ranged(25ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Bide is a

has -2 during Accuracy Check. Fury Attack is a Scatter at-

three-turn move. On the first and second turns, do nothing. tack. Up to 5 attacks.

On the third turn, release energy; all characters within range take damage equal to twice the damage you took since the first turn of Bide.

Giga Impact - Melee(10ft burst) Normal Attack: 1/day 5d20. Giga Impact has a recharge turn and -2 during Accuracy Check. (Fully evolved only)

Celebrate - Ranged(25ft burst) Normal Effect: 3/day. Roll

Helping Hand - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. Target ally's

1d20. On 20, in addition to your own stats, each ally within next attack during this round will deal +1d20 damage.

range has their Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special De-

fense, and Speed raised +1 for 10 mins.

Hidden Power ≠ Ranged(25ft) (Variable) Special Attack: 3/day

3d8. When Hidden Power is added to a move list, assign a

Chip Away - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. Chip Away has random Type to it (Type can't be changed by relearning this

+2 on Accuracy Check if used against a target with a De-

move).

fense or Special Defense raising passive.

Hold Back - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Hold Back

Covet - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, steals the target's held item, if any.

cannot be used to knock out a target. Instead, the target will still have 1 HP.

Double Hit - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 2d8. Double Hit is a Hyper Beam - Ranged(25ft beam) Normal Special Attack: 1/

Scatter attack. It has two attacks.

day 5d20. Hyper Beam has a recharge turn and -2 during

Double Slap - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Double Slap Accuracy Check. (Fully evolved only)

has -2 during Accuracy Check. Double Slap is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

Laser Focus - Ranged(30ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, your next attack against the same target will be a Critical Hit.

Double Team - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. You create 3 cop- You still need to make an Accuracy Check.

ies of yourself. You may attack from any copy and copies Pound - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. may inhabit spaces up to 25 ft away from each other, though none can be more than 25 ft from any other copies Protect - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Protect is used as a Re-

or the original. If a copy is hit, it disappears and you take action. When you would be hit by a move, use Protect to 1/4th of the damage it would have taken. If your copy is hit instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack.

by a non-damaging attack the copy is dismissed and you are unaffected by the attack. If you are hit, all copies disappear. (At least 10 Speed)

Pursuit - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d6. Pursuit deals +6 damage to a target if they ended their turn further away from you during the start of their turn.

Encore - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. If the target can, Quick Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. Quick At-

it must use the last move it did for the next 3 rounds or

tack has Priority. (At least 10 Speed)

until it no longer can.

Rage - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, your Attack Endeavor - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day. On hit, if the target is +1 for 10 mins. has more HP than you, the target's HP is set to equal your

HP.

Rapid Spin - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d8. Destroy any

Hazards or Coats, and free bound allies within 5 ft. You

Endure - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Endure is used as a Reac- may target Hazards, Coats, or bound allies with Rapid Spin

tion. If you would be hit by an attack that would knock you without needing to roll Accuracy Check or damage. (At

out, use Endure to instead be left with 1 HP.

least 10 Speed)

Facade - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 3d8. If you have an affliction, use 5d12 as damage instead.

Rest - Self Psychic Effect: 1/day. You may fall Asleep. If you do, you recover your HP to Max HP and are cured of all af-

flictions. You cannot attempt to wake up or be awoken nat-

urally for 3 rounds.

Proficiency Lists

761

Retaliate - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 1d12. If the target knocked out an ally during this round, Retaliate has 5d12 for damage instead.

Trailblaze - Melee Grass Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, your Speed is +1 for 10 mins. (No Piscian proficiency)

Avian List Return - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Return can only
be used if you have 3 or more loyalty.

Roar - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, Pokťmon that are smaller than you will not want to fight and will attempt to run away from you.

The avian list is short but is available to a bunch of Pokťmon. When it comes down to it, Pokťmon compatible with this list have wings and beaks, but some Pokťmon like Blaziken, Dodrio, and Empoleon break this pattern.

Sand Attack - Ranged(10ft) Ground Effect: At-Will. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.

Brave Bird - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

Sleep Talk - Self Normal Effect: 3/day. Sleep Talk may only be used while you are Asleep. You randomly use another

Drill Peck - Melee Flying Attack: 3/day 3d10.

move that you know. You may move at half speed while

Peck - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d6.

using Sleep Talk.

Mirror Move - Ranged(30ft) Flying Effect: 1/day. You perform

Slippin Slide - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d6. If you are in the same attack that was just used against you, even if it

water, Raining terrain, or Tide terrain, Slippin Slide deals missed.

+1d6 damage.

Snore - Melee Normal Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. Snore can only be used while you're Asleep. You may move at half of your normal Speed if you use Snore during your action. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Splash - Melee Normal Effect: At-Will. Instead of making an Accuracy Check, roll 1d20. On 18 or higher, all adjacent foes are moved 5 ft away from the user.
Substitute - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Substitute is used as a Reaction. If you would be hit by an attack that would deal more than 1/6th of your Max HP in damage, use Substitute to instead ignore the damage and effects of the attack, but also lose HP equal to 1/6th of your Max HP.
Swift - Ranged(20ft) Normal Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense. (At least 8 in Attack or Special Attack)
Tackle - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Tail Slap - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Tail Slap has -2 during Accuracy Check. Tail Slap is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks. (Must have a tail)
Take Down - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.
Taunt - Ranged(20ft) Dark Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target may only use attacks that target you or your allies for 1 min.
Tidepools - Water Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Tide Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Pokťmon with the skill Flopper or Beached ignore those skills while acting within Tide Terrain. Tide Terrain does not replace other Terrains nor does it get replaced by other Terrains. This terrain disappears after 5 mins.
Toxic - Melee Poison Effect: 1/day. Toxic has -3 during Accuracy Check, unless you are Poison type. On hit, the target is Toxified.

Bruiser List
Bruisers are ready for slug fests and strike with heavy arms or legs or throw their power into the ground or toss things around at foes.
Belly Drum - Self Normal Effect: 3/day. You lose HP equal to half of your Max HP, then your Attack is +6 for 10 mins.
Body Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Breaking Swipe - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Attack is -1 for 10 mins.
Brutal Swing - Melee(5ft burst) Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8.
Counter - Melee Fighting Effect: 1/day. Counter is used as a Reaction. After an enemy hits you with a melee Attack move that deals damage, use Counter to deal exactly twice the damage to the enemy that you received. Do not apply weakness or resistances.
Darkest Lariat - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10.
Double Edge - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.
Earth Power - Ranged(15ft) Ground Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Earthquake - Ranged(30ft burst) Ground Attack: 1/day 3d12.
Hammer Arm - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Speed is -1 for 10 mins.
Headbutt - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Iron Head - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Lash Out - Melee Dark Attack: 1/day 3d12. If your stats were lowered this round by the target, use 6d12 for damage instead.

Proficiency Lists

762

Play Rough - Melee Fairy Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Attack is -1 for 10 mins.
Bruiser List Continued
Revenge - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. If you were attacked by the target this round, use 3d12 for damage instead.
Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Slam has -2 during Accuracy Check.
Stomping Tantrum - Melee Ground Attack: 1/day 3d12. If you missed with your last attack during the last round, Stomping Tantrum has 5d12 for damage instead.
Strength - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target is moved 15ft away from you.
Submission - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.
Superpower - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Attack and Defense is -2 for 10 mins.

Draconian List
Draconian Pokťmon are not always Dragon-type, but often resemble the dragons or a part of the dragon egg group.
Dragon Claw - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 3d10.
Dragon Rush - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 3d10. Dragon Rush has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Dragon Tail - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, move the target 40ft away.
Dragon Breath - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Dragon Rage - Ranged(5ft) Dragon Special Attack: 3/day 25. Do not add bonuses of any kind to this damage.

Thrash - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. Thrash is a two-

Energy Blast List turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character
within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accura-

cy Check and damage against them. After your second turn Pokťmon with access to energy blasts can form wild en-

you are Confused.

ergy and release beams of power. These are all powerful

attacks and sometimes there won't be tutors who can

Cutesy List

teach these moves except for a few in a whole region. Dark Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dark Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Pokťmon who can learn from the cutesy list abuse their On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target

appearance to trick foes. They're often cute.

is Stunned.

Alluring Voice - Ranged(15ft wave) Fairy Special Attack: 1/day Dazzling Gleam - Ranged(15ft, 10ft wave) Fairy Special At3d10. On hit, if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, all tack: 3/day 3d8.

targets are Confused.

Dragon Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: 3/day

Disarming Voice - Ranged(10ft) Fairy Special Attack: At-Will 3d10.

1d12. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.

Flash Cannon - Ranged(20ft) Steel Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Draining Kiss - Melee Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.
Follow Me - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, all affected foes will only attack you until you are knocked out. (At least 10 Speed)
Nuzzle - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 1d10. On hit, the target is Paralyzed.
Pounce - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Psybeam - Ranged(15ft beam) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.
Shadow Ball - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Signal Beam - Ranged(15ft beam) Bug Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Confused.

Skitter Smack - Melee Bug Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Sweet Kiss - Melee Fairy Effect: 3/day. Sweet Kiss has -4 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.

Yawn - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target falls Asleep after its next turn.

Proficiency Lists

763

Elemental Attack List

Ice

Elemental attacks consist of projectile Electric, Fire, and Blizzard - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Ice Special Attack: 1/day

Ice-type attacks. The Pokťmon with access to these moves 5d12. Blizzard has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Hail-

will sometimes only have access to parts of this list, as

ing. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the

specified per Pokemon: Pokťmon proficiency entries will targets are Frozen.

say "Elemental Attacks E, F, and/or I" indicating Elec- Ice Beam - Ranged(20ft beam) Ice Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.

tric, Fire, and/or Ice compatibility. If a Pokťmon just

On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target

has "Elemental Attacks" without any indicators, they is Frozen.

have access to the entire list.

Icy Wind - Ranged(10ft) Ice Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit,

Electric

the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Charge Beam - Ranged(10ft beam) Electric Special Attack: At-

Will 1d12. On hit, your Special Attack is +1 for 10 mins.

Fangs List

Shock Wave - Ranged(20ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d8.

You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.

Many Pokťmon with fangs can gather energy to their

Thunder - Ranged(30ft, 5ft blast) Electric Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Thunder has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's

mouths and do great damage to enemies. Not every fanged Pokťmon can use every fang move and they're de-

Raining. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, fined per move.

the targets are Paralyzed.

Bite - Melee Dark Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or

Thunder Shock - Ranged(20ft) Electric Special Attack: At-Will higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the Bug Bite - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if the target

target is Paralyzed.

is holding a Berry, you steal it and immediately consume it.

Thunderbolt - Ranged(30ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day

Crunch - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's

3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

target is Paralyzed.

Fire Fang - Melee Fire Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18

Fire

or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is randomly either

Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, Stunned or Burned. (No Ice-types)

if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is

Hyper Fang - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if

Burned.

you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is

Fire Blast - Ranged(40ft, 10ft blast) Fire Special Attack: 1/day Stunned.

5d12. Fire Blast has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's

Ice Fang - Melee Ice Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18

Sunny. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is randomly either

the targets are Burned.

Stunned or Frozen. (No Fire-types)

Fire Spin - Ranged(20ft) Fire Special Attack: 3/day 1d4. On Poison Fang - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, if hit, the target is bound in place for 1d4 rounds. For each you got 10 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Toxiround the target is bound, it takes 1d4 damage on its turns. fied.

Flame Burst - Ranged(20ft, 5ft blast) Fire Special Attack: 3/ Psychic Fangs - Melee Psychic Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit,

day 3d8.

Psychic Fangs destroys all walls within melee range. Psychic

Flamethrower - Ranged(20ft beam) Fire Special Attack: 3/day Fangs can target walls. (No Dark-types, No Ice-types)

3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the Thunder Fang - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if

target is Burned.

you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is ran-

Heat Wave - Ranged(25ft burst) Fire Special Attack: 1/day

domly either Stunned or Paralyzed. (No Ice-types)

3d12. On hit, if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check,

targets are Burned.

Proficiency Lists

764

Floral List

Hexwork List

The floral list has many Pokťmon who have some kind

Hexwork involves attacks that aim to punish and subdue

of flower on their body or are closely related to flowers.

foes and the Pokťmon who can use these moves are dark

Aromatherapy - Melee Grass Effect: 3/day. Target an ally or and mischievous.

yourself. Target is cured of all afflictions.

Confuse Ray - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. On hit, the

Energy Ball - Ranged(20ft) Grass Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. target becomes Confused.

On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

Destiny Bond - Self Ghost Effect: 1/day. If you are knocked

Grassy Terrain - Grass Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Grassy Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Anyone who acts

out before your next turn, the offender who caused you to get knocked out has its HP set to 0.

within the Grassy terrain recovers 1d12 HP after acting.

Disable - Ranged(20ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. For 1 minute,

Within the Grassy Terrain, Grass-type attacks deal an addi- the attack last used by the target may not be used again.

tional 8 damage. This terrain disappears after 2 mins.

Dream Eater - Melee Psychic Special Attack: 1/day 5d12.

Petal Blizzard - Ranged(10ft burst) Grass Attack: 3/day 3d10. Dream Eater can only hit Sleeping targets. On hit, you re-

Petal Dance - Ranged(5ft burst) Grass Special Attack: 1/day gain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

5d12. Petal Dance is a two-turn move. On each turn, move Heal Block - Ranged(30ft burst) Psychic Effect: 1/day. All af-

to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and fected targets cannot be healed or heal for 1 minute.

roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.

Hex - Ranged(15ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target is afflicted, Hex has 5d8 for damage instead.

Sleep Powder - Melee Grass Effect: At-Will. Sleep Powder has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is put to Sleep.

Hypnosis - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Effect: 3/day. Hypnosis has 4 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is put Asleep.

Stun Spore - Melee Grass Effect: At-Will. Stun Spore has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Paralyzed.

Mean Look - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is bound in place for 2 mins. Ghost Pokťmon are immune to Mean Look.

Sweet Scent - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. On hit, your next attack against the same target has +1 during Accuracy Check.

Memento - Melee Dark Effect: 1/day. Your HP is set to 0, then the target's Attack and Special Attack are set to 0 for 10 mins.

Glutton List
A Pokťmon can weaponize their eating habits if it has the stomach to.
Belch - Ranged(15ft) Poison Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Belch cannot be used unless you've eaten within the last minute.

Pain Split - Melee Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, you and target's current HPs are added together and halved, assigning both you and the target that new value. Neither can have their new HPs be more than their Max.
Trick - Melee Psychic Effect: 1/day. On hit, you and the target trade any held items. If only you or the target has an item, take or give the item to exchange who has possession of it.

Gastro Acid - Ranged(10ft) Poison Effect: 3/day. On hit, the Will-O-Wisp - Ranged(10ft) Fire Effect: 1/day. On hit, the tartarget cannot benefit from any ability passives for 10 mins. get is Burned.

Lick - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d8. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Spit Up - Ranged(15ft) Normal Special Attack: 1/day. Destroy up to 3 of your Coats of Stuff. For every Coat of Stuff you destroy, Spit Up deals an additional 2d10 damage.

Stockpile - Normal Self Effect: At-Will. Put a Stuff Coat on yourself, unless you already have 3 Coats of Stuff. The Coat has the following ability: Your Defense and Special Defense are +1 if you have 1 or 2 Coats of Stuff. If you have 3 Coats of Stuff, your Defense and Special Defense are +2. These Coats last for 2 mins.

Swallow - Normal Self Effect: 1/day. Destroy up to 3 of your Coats of Stuff. For every Coat of Stuff you destroy, Swallow heals you 25 HP.

Proficiency Lists

765

Healer List

Lepidopteran List

Healers have an aura of healing that they can exert unto Pokťmon who produce powders on their wings or very

others with their power. These moves are particularly use- light petals can be taught these moves.

ful when on long journeys if your Pokťmon can learn them. Poison Powder - Melee Poison Effect: At-Will. Poison Powder

Heal Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Effect: 1/day. Target an ally has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Poi-

or yourself. The target is healed HP equal to half of the tar- soned.

get's Max HP.

Powder - Melee Bug Effect: 1/day. Powder is used as a Reac-

Healing Wish - Melee Psychic Effect: 1/day. Your HP is set to tion. If an enemy within melee range would hit you with a

0, then target ally is healed to Max HP and cured of any

Fire-type attack, use Powder to instead ignore the damage

afflictions.

and any effects of the Fire-type attack, and also the enemy

Life Dew - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Effect: 1/day. You and

loses HP equal to 1/6th of its Max HP.

any allies in range are each healed HP equal to 1/6th of your Rage Powder - Ranged(10ft) Bug Effect: 3/day. Rage Powder

Max HP.

is used as a Reaction. If an ally would be attacked, you may

Refresh - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. Target an ally or your-

target the attacking enemy and they will only want to attack you instead, for 2 mins.

self. Target is cured of all afflictions.

Sleep Powder - Melee Grass Effect: At-Will. Sleep Powder Safeguard - Ranged(10ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Put a has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is put to Safe Coat on all allies and yourself. The Coat has the follow- Sleep. ing ability: You cannot become afflicted. This Coat lasts for

2 mins.

Stun Spore - Melee Grass Effect: At-Will. Stun Spore has -5

during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Paralyzed. Wish - Melee Normal Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or yourself.

After the target acts during the next round, they are healed

HP equal to half of the target's Max HP.

Horned List
Horned Pokťmon can learn these moves.
Drill Run - Melee Ground Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Drill Run is a critical hit.
Horn Attack - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8.
Ice Spinner - Melee Ice Attack: 3/day 3d8. Destroy any Terrain effects that you move through while using Ice Spinner. You may target Terrain with Ice Spinner without needing to roll Accuracy Check or damage.
Megahorn - Melee Bug Attack: 1/day 5d12.
Poison Jab - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.
Poison Sting - Melee Poison Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.
Smart Strike - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense.

Proficiency Lists

766

Martial List

Punches List

The martial list is extensive and has two sub groups, the Bullet Punch - Melee Steel Attack: At-Will 2d6. Bullet Punch Punches List and the Kicks List. Some Pokťmon only have has Priority.

access to Punches or Kicks, while others only have access Comet Punch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Comet

to all of the Martial moves. On proficiency lists, a

Punch has -2 during Accuracy Check. Comet Punch is a

Pokťmon will be noted as "Martial," covering

Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

everything here, or possibly, "Martial Punches," covering the martial list and punches, or even just "Punches," or, "Kicks," so Pokťmon can only use just

Dizzy Punch - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

the moves on the Punches list.

Drain Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you

Acrobatics - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Acrobatics

regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

cannot be used if you have a held item.

Dynamic Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12.

Aura Sphere - Ranged(30ft) Fighting Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. You can't miss targets with less than 20 Special

Dynamic Punch has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.

Defense.

Fire Punch - Melee Fire Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got

Close Combat - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned.

your Defense and Special Defense are -2 for 10 mins.

Focus Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 5d12. Focus

Cross Chop - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. Cross Chop has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, Cross Chop is a critical hit.
Dual Chop - Melee Dragon Attack: 3/day 2d8. Dual Chop is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.
Force Palm - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Karate Chop - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Karate Chop is a

Punch is a two-turn move. On the first turn: if anyone hits you before your next turn, you are Stunned. On the second turn, move up to twice your movement speed, then roll Focus Punch's Accuracy Check and damage.
Ice Punch - Melee Ice Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen.
Mach Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. Mach Punch has Priority.
Mega Punch- Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8.

critical hit.

Poison Jab - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you

Rock Climb - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused. Power-Up Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit,

Smack Down - Ranged(25ft) Rock Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.

Smack Down knocks the target out of the air, removing any Sky Uppercut - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d10. You may

Ground-type immunities and disabling the target's ability to leap up to 60ft upwards to hit a target while using Sky

move in the air for 2 mins.

Uppercut.

Throat Chop - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target may not use attacks or abilities that require the use of the target's voice for 5 mins.
Vacuum Wave - Ranged(15ft) Fighting Special Attack: At-Will 2d6. Vacuum Wave has Priority.

Sucker Punch - Melee Dark Attack: 1/day 3d8. Sucker Punch is used as a Reaction. When you are a target of a melee move, use Sucker Punch to attack the attacker before the enemy rolls their Accuracy Check against you. You must still roll an accuracy check for Sucker Punch.

Vital Throw - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense if the target already acted this round. On hit, move the target away from you 15ft.

Thunder Punch - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Wake-Up Slap - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. If Wake-Up Slap is used against a Sleeping target, Wake-Up Slap deals 5d8 for damage instead, then cures the target of Sleep. If you choose not to roll damage while using Wake-Up Slap, you do not need to roll an Accuracy Check.

Proficiency Lists

767

Kicks List

Munition List

Axe Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. Axe Kick has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused. If you miss, you lose HP equal to half of your Max HP.
Blaze Kick - Melee Fire Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned. (Fire or Fighting-type only)
Double Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 2d8. Double Kick is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.
High Jump Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. High Jump Kick has -2 during Accuracy Check. If you miss, you lose HP equal to half of your Max HP.
Jump Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d10. Jump Kick has -2 during Accuracy Check. If you miss, you lose HP equal to half of your Max HP.
Low Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d10. Low Kick can only target heavier targets.
Low Sweep - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Pokťmon who fire projectiles or use loose rubble on the ground can learn from this munitions list.
Bullet Seed - Ranged(10ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 1d4. Bullet Seed has -2 during Accuracy Check. Bullet Seed is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Electro Ball - Ranged(15ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. Electro Ball can only be used against targets slower than you.
Gyro Ball - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. Gyro Ball can only target faster targets.
Mud Bomb - Ranged(10ft) Ground Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.
Rock Blast - Ranged(10ft) Rock Attack: At-Will 1d4. Rock Blast has -2 during Accuracy Check. Rock Blast is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Sludge Bomb - Ranged(25ft, 5ft blast) Poison Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Poisoned.

Mega Kick- Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. Mega Kick has

-3 during Accuracy Check.
Rolling Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Triple Axel - Melee Ice Attack: 3/day 1d12. Triple Axel is a Scatter attack. Up to 3 attacks. Triple Axel's last attack on hit deals an additional 1d12 damage. (No Fire-types)

Normal Block
The Normal Block is a wild range of moves that many Normal-type Pokťmon have access to. Many other Pokťmon also have access to the Normal Block. Some Pokťmon will not have access to the whole Normal Block and may have limitation such as "Normal Block No Spe-

Magnetism List

cial Attacks" or even "Normal Block No Fire-type Moves" in their proficiencies.

Astonish - Melee Ghost Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if you Some Pokťmon can manipulate magnetic fields without got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned. necessarily using electric-based powers.

Avalanche - Melee Ice Attack: 3/day 3d8. If you were at-

Magnet Pull - Ranged(10ft) Electric Effect: 3/day. Magnet Pull tacked by the target this round, use 3d12 for damage in-

can't miss. If used on a Steel type, the target is bound to

stead.

you.

Blizzard - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Ice Special Attack: 1/day

Magnet Rise - Self Electric Effect: 3/day. You gain an immun- 5d12. Blizzard has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Hail-

ity to Ground type attacks and gain a flight movement

ing. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the

speed equal to half your land speed for two mins.

targets are Frozen.

Electric Terrain - Electric Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Electrified Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Anyone touching the ground within the Electrified terrain is immune to being put to Sleep. Within the Electrified Terrain, Electric-type attacks deal an additional 8 damage. This terrain disappears after 2 mins.

Brick Break - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. Destroy any Walls within 5 ft. You may target Walls with Brick Break without needing to roll Accuracy Check or damage.
Charge Beam - Ranged(10ft beam) Electric Special Attack: AtWill 1d12. On hit, your Special Attack is +1 for 10 mins.

Lock-On - Ranged(40ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. Lock-On can't miss. Your next attack against the same target will not miss.

Dynamic Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. Dynamic Punch has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.

Proficiency Lists

768

Normal Block Continued

Mud-Slap - Ranged(5ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 1d6.

On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next

Ember - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, turn.

if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is

Burned.

Power-Up Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit,

your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.

Fire Blast - Ranged(40ft, 10ft blast) Fire Special Attack: 1/day

5d12. Fire Blast has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's

Psychic - Ranged(25ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On

Sunny. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

the targets are Burned.

Rain Dance - Water Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of

Fire Spin - Ranged(20ft) Fire Special Attack: 3/day 1d4. On hit, Raining Weather with a 60ft diameter. Within the Raining

the target is bound in place for 1d4 rounds. For each round weather, Water-type attacks deal an additional 8 damage

the target is bound, it takes 1d4 damage on its turns.

and Fire-type attacks deal 8 less damage. This weather dis-

Flame Burst - Ranged(20ft, 5ft blast) Fire Special Attack: 3/

appears after 2 mins.

day 3d8.

Rock Smash - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, the

target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins. Flame Wheel - Melee Fire Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you

got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned. Rock Tomb - Ranged(15ft) Rock Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit,

the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins. Flamethrower - Ranged(20ft beam) Fire Special Attack: 3/day

3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the Rollout - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time

target is Burned.

you've successfully used Rollout against the same target

during the encounter, add 1d6 to Rollout's damage. Focus Blast - Ranged(30ft) Fighting Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Focus Blast has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the Seismic Toss - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 25. Do not add

target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.

bonuses of any kind to this damage.

Focus Punch - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 5d12. Focus Punch is a two-turn move. On the first turn: if anyone hits you before your next turn, you are Stunned. On the second turn, move up to twice your movement speed, then roll Focus Punch's Accuracy Check and damage.
Grass Knot - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. Grass Knot can only target heavier targets.
Gunk Shot - Ranged(20ft, 10ft blast) Poison Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Poisoned.
Gyro Ball - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. Gyro Ball can only target faster targets.
Heat Wave - Ranged(25ft burst) Fire Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, targets are Burned.

Shadow Ball - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Shock Wave - Ranged(20ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.
Submission - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.
Sunny Day - Fire Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Sunny Weather with a 60ft diameter. Within the Sunny weather, Fire-type attacks deal an additional 8 damage and Water-type attacks deal 8 less damage. This weather disappears after 2 mins.
Thunder - Ranged(30ft, 5ft blast) Electric Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. Thunder has -2 during Accuracy Check unless it's Raining. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the targets are Paralyzed.

Ice Beam - Ranged(20ft beam) Ice Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. Thunder Shock - Ranged(20ft) Electric Special Attack: At-Will

On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the

is Frozen.

target is Paralyzed.

Icy Wind - Ranged(10ft) Ice Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, Thunder Wave - Ranged(20ft) Electric Effect: 1/day. On hit,

the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

the target is Paralyzed.

Incinerate - Ranged(10ft) Fire Special Attack: At-Will 1d10. On hit, if the target is holding a Berry, you destroy it.

Mud Shot - Ranged(10ft) Ground Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins.

Mud Sport - Melee Ground Effect: At-Will. Put a Mud Coat on the target or yourself. The Coat has the following ability: Reduce damage from Electric attacks that hit you by 10. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

Proficiency Lists

769

Normal Block Continued

Signal Beam - Ranged(15ft beam) Bug Special Attack: 3/day

3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, all

Thunderbolt - Ranged(30ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day

targets are Confused.

3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the

target is Paralyzed.

Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Slam has -2 during

Accuracy Check.

Wild Charge - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, you

lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal.

Water Pulse - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Special Attack: 3/day

3d8. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the

Zap Cannon - Ranged(30ft) Electric Special Attack: 1/day

target is Confused.

5d12. Zap Cannon has ≠5 during Accuracy Check. On hit the

target is Paralyzed.

Whirlpool - Ranged(10ft) Water Special Attack: 3/day 1d12.

On hit, the target is bound in place for 1d4 rounds. For

Zen Headbutt - Melee Psychic Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 damage on its

you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is

turns.

Stunned.

Parasitic List
Through needle, fang, or roots, some Pokťmon can use these moves to drain the life out of other Pokťmon.
Leech Life - Melee Bug Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

Prickly List
Pokťmon who are able to learn from the prickly list have spikes, spines, and other pokey features.
Acupressure - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. Target an ally or yourself. The target's Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, or Speed is raised +2 for five mins.

Absorb - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, you Ice Spinner - Melee Ice Attack: 3/day 3d8. Destroy any Ter-

regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

rain effects that you move through while using Ice Spinner.

Giga Drain - Melee Grass Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, You may target Terrain with Ice Spinner without needing to

you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

roll Accuracy Check or damage.

Mega Drain - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d10. On hit, Pin Missile - Ranged(10ft) Bug Attack: At-Will 1d4. Pin Missile

you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt.

has -2 during Accuracy Check. Pin Missile is a Scatter attack.

Up to 5 attacks.

Piscian List

Poison Jab - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

Fins, gills and a tail make you compatible with this move list.

Poison Sting - Melee Poison Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, if you got 15 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

Aqua Tail - Melee Water Attack: 1/day 3d12.

Spike Cannon - Ranged(10ft) Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Spike Cannon has -2 during Accuracy Check. Spike Cannon

Body Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.

got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed. Spikes - Ranged(20ft burst) Ground Effect: 3/day. Place the

Bounce - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Bounce is a two- Spikes Hazard in the area surrounding you. Spikes Hazard

turn move. On the first turn, raise yourself 40 ft into the air. has the following ability: When a foe moves through Spikes

On the second turn, return to the ground, move up to twice Hazard during their turn and are on the ground, they lose

your movement rate, then you may roll Bounce's Accuracy 1/6th of their Max HP. This Hazard disappears after 2 mins.

Check and damage. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Twineedle - Melee Bug Attack: 3/day 1d12. Twineedle is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks. On either hit, if you got 14

Dive - Melee Water Attack: 3/day 3d10. Dive is a two-turn

or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

move. On the first turn, swim up to 40 ft straight down, and

water is hindering terrain on foe's attacks against you until

your next turn. On the second turn, swim up to your move-

ment speed +40 ft, then you can roll Dive's Accuracy Check

and damage.

Flail - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 1d10. If you are at less than half of your Max HP, Flail has 1d20 for damage instead. If you are at less than 5 HP, Flail has 5d12 for damage instead.

Proficiency Lists

770

Pulse List

Psycho Cut - Ranged(20ft) Psychic Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Psycho Cut is a

Some Pokťmon can manipulate auras and project ener- critical hit.

gies from themselves.

Razor Wind - Ranged(30ft, 10ft wave) Normal Attack: 3/day

Aura Sphere - Ranged(30ft) Fighting Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. You can't miss targets with less than 20 Special De-

3d10. Razor Wind is a two-turn move. On the first turn, do nothing. On the second turn, you may roll Razor Wind's

fense.

Accuracy Check and damage. On hit, if you got 18 or more

Dark Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dark Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. on Accuracy Check, Razor Wind is a critical hit.

On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target Scratch - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.

is Stunned.

Shadow Claw - Melee Ghost Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you

Dragon Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Special Attack: 3/day got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Shadow Claw is a criti-

3d10.

cal hit.

Heal Pulse - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Effect: 1/day. Target an ally Slash - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18

or yourself. The target is healed HP equal to half of the tar- or higher on Accuracy Check, Slash is a critical hit.

get's Max HP.

Solar Blade - Melee Grass Attack: 1/day 5d12. Solar Blade is

Terrain Pulse - Ranged(25ft) Normal Special Attack: 3/day a two-turn move unless it is Sunny. On the first turn, do

3d8. If used while you are in the area of a Terrain effect,

nothing. On the second turn or if it is Sunny, move up to

Terrain Pulse has 5d8 for damage instead and its type

twice your movement speed, then roll Solar Blade's Accura-

changes to match the terrain.

cy Check and damage.

Water Pulse - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Special Attack: 3/day X-Scissor - Melee Bug Attack: 3/day 3d10. 3d8. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Confused.

Slashing List
Pokťmon who have sharpened claws or some kind of bladed body part have access to these moves.
Aerial Ace - Melee Flying Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense.
Air Slash - Ranged(15ft) Flying Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. Air Slash has -1 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Cross Poison - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Cross Poison is a critical hit and the target is Poisoned. (Bug or Poison-type only)
Crush Claw - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Cut - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d6.
Fury Cutter - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Fury Cutter against the same target during the encounter, add 1d6 to Fury Cutter's damage.
Fury Swipes - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Fury Swipes has -2 during Accuracy Check. Fury Swipes is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks.
Metal Claw - Melee Steel Attack: At-Will 2d6. On hit, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins.

Sound List
Some Pokťmon can manipulate their voices to produce powerful effects. It should be noted that not all soundrelated moves are on the Sound List.
Boomburst - Ranged(25ft burst) Normal Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. Anyone within range of Boomburst is cured of Sleep.
Echoed Voice - Ranged(10ft) Normal Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. Echoed Voice deals +5 damage if you used it during the previous round.
Hyper Voice - Ranged(30ft beam) Normal Special Attack: 1/ day 3d12.
Round - Ranged(15ft burst) Normal Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. For every time anyone has used Round before you during this round of combat, Round deals +1d10 damage.
Sing - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Sing has -8 during Accuracy Check. On hit, all targets fall Asleep.
Sonic Boom - Ranged(5ft) Normal Special Attack: At-Will 10. Do not add bonuses of any kind to this damage.
Supersonic - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. Supersonic has -8 during Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is Confused.
Synchronoise - Ranged(50ft burst) Psychic Special Attack: 3/ day 5d8. Synchronoise can't hit targets unless they share at least one type with you.

Night Slash - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Night Slash is a critical hit.

Proficiency Lists

771

Uproar - Ranged(20ft burst) Normal Special Attack: 1/day

Magic Room - Psychic Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle

3d10. Uproar is a three-turn move. On each of its turns,

of Magical Terrain with a 60ft diameter. If within the Magi-

you can move normally, then roll Uproar's accuracy check cal terrain, Pokťmon cannot use any held items. This ter-

and damage. Sleeping Pokťmon within range of Uproar are rain disappears after 2 mins.

awoken and Pokťmon cannot go to Sleep within Uproar's range.

Magical Leaf - Ranged(25ft) Grass Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Special Defense.

Spellcraft List

Mean Look - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is bound in place for 2 mins. Ghost Pokťmon are immune to Mean Look.

Many Pokťmon are capable of making magical effects real; unlike hexwork, the move list that often but not always paired with spellcraft, spellcraft is not always malicious.
Ally Switch - Self Psychic Effect: 1/day. Ally Switch is used as a Reaction. When you would be hit by an attack, use Ally Switch to instead switch places with a willing ally within 60ft. That ally is hit by the attack instead of you.

Misty Terrain - Fairy Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Misty Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Within the Misty terrain, Dragon-type attacks are resisted by anyone who is not already resistant to Dragon-type attacks and afflictions cannot be given to anyone. This terrain disappears after 2 mins.
Mystical Fire - Ranged(20ft) Fire Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins.

Destiny Bond - Self Ghost Effect: 1/day. If you are knocked out before your next turn, the offender who caused you to get knocked out has its HP set to 0.
Disable - Ranged(20ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. For 1 minute, the attack last used by the target may not be used again.
Flash - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn.

Pain Split - Melee Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, you and target's current HPs are added together and halved, assigning both you and the target that new value. Neither can have their new HPs be more than their Max.
Reflect - Melee Psychic Effect: 3/day. Put a Reflect Coat on the target or yourself. The Coat has the following ability: Reduce damage from attacks that use the attack stat that hit you by 10. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.

Gravity - Psychic Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Gravity Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Within the terrain, Pokťmon may not leave the ground and any Pokťmon that are in the air are brought down to the ground. This terrain disappears after 2 mins.
Heal Block - Ranged(30ft burst) Psychic Effect: 1/day. All affected targets cannot be healed or heal for 1 minute.
Healing Wish - Melee Psychic Effect: 1/day. Your HP is set to 0, then target ally is healed to Max HP and cured of any afflictions.
Light Screen - Ranged(30ft) Psychic Effect: 3/day. Place 40ft of contiguous Light Screen Wall. Light Screen Wall is see through, 12 ft tall, and has the following ability: Special Attacks that target through this wall deal 10 less damage after applying weakness and resistance. This Wall disappears after 2 mins.

Safeguard - Ranged(10ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Put a Safe Coat on all allies and yourself. The Coat has the following ability: You cannot become afflicted. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.
Sing - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. Sing has -8 during Accuracy Check. On hit, all targets fall Asleep.
Teleport - Ranged(50ft) Psychic Effect: 1/day. Teleport may be used as a Reaction. Teleport moves you up to 50ft away in your line of sight. If an enemy would hit you with a move that deals damage, use Teleport as a Reaction to move up to 50ft away in your line of sight and take only 1/4th the damage you would have taken from the attack.
Wish - Melee Normal Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or yourself. After the target acts during the next round, they are healed HP equal to half of the target's Max HP.

Lucky Chant - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 3/day. Put a Lucky Coat on all allies and yourself. The Coat has the following ability: If you are hit by a Critical Hit, treat the hit as a regular successful hit. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.
Magic Coat - Melee Psychic Effect: 3/day. Put a Magic Coat on the target or yourself. The Coat has the following ability: If you would be given an affliction by a foe, instead that foe receives the affliction. This Coat lasts for 2 rounds.

Stampeding List
Strong and heavy Pokťmon can throw their weight around and really throw down.
Assurance - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the target was already attacked this round, Assurance deals +1d8 damage.
Belly Drum - Self Normal Effect: 3/day. You lose HP equal to half of your Max HP, then your Attack is +6 for 10 mins.

Block - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d6 rounds.

Proficiency Lists

772

Stampeding List Continued
Body Press - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. Body Press deals +2 damage for every point of Defense you have above the target.

Thrash - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. Thrash is a twoturn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.

Body Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.
Bulldoze - Ranged(20ft burst) Ground Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, all target's Speed are -1 for 10 mins.

Wave Crash- Melee Water Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal. Your Speed
is +2 for 10 mins. (Water-type only)

Tricky List Double Edge - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you
lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal.

Earthquake - Ranged(30ft burst) Ground Attack: 1/day 3d12.
Head Smash - Melee Rock Attack: 1/day 7d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to half of the damage you deal. Head Smash has -2 during Accuracy Check.
Headbutt - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Many Pokťmon outsmart or take advantage of an opponent's naivety by playing mean tricks or plainly fighting dirty.
Burning Jealousy - Ranged(30ft, 10ft wave) Fire Special Attack: 1/day 2d12. On hit, if any targets have had any stats raised in the past 2 mins, Burning Jealousy Burns the target. (Fire or Dark-type only)

Heavy Slam - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. Heavy Slam can only target lighter targets.

Fake Out - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 2d6. Fake Out has Priority. Fake Out can only be used as your first action dur-

Outrage - Melee Dragon Attack: 1/day 5d12. Outrage is a

ing an encounter. On hit, the target is Stunned.

two-turn move. On each turn, move to the closest character within 25 ft that you can reach, and roll this move's Accuracy Check and damage against them. After your second turn you are Confused.
Rock Slide - Ranged(20ft, 10ft wave) Rock Attack: 1/day 5d12. Rock Slide has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

Feint Attack - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense.
Flatter - Ranged(10ft) Dark Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Special Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.
Knock Off - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target

Sand Tomb - Ranged(10ft) Ground Attack: 3/day 1d4. On hit, drops any held items or weapons.

the target is bound in place for 1d4 rounds. For each round Payback - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. If you were at-

the target is bound, it takes 1d4 damage on its turns.

tacked by the target this round, use 3d12 for damage in-

Slam - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Slam has -2 during stead.

Accuracy Check.

Punishment - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 2d10. Punishment

Steamroller - Melee Bug Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you deals an additional 1d10 damage for each stat buff Passive got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned. the target has.

Steel Roller - Melee Steel Attack: 1/day 5d12. Steel Roller can Quash - Melee Dark Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target will act

only be used if you are in the area of a Terrain move, and last during each round for two mins. Its Speed is unaffect-

destroys that Terrain when used.

ed.

Stomp - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Stomping Tantrum - Melee Ground Attack: 1/day 3d12. If you missed with your last attack during the last round, Stomping Tantrum has 5d12 for damage instead.
Stone Edge - Ranged(25ft) Rock Attack: 1/day 5d12. Stone Edge has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Stone Edge is a critical hit.
Strength - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target is moved 15ft away from you.

Sucker Punch - Melee Dark Attack: 1/day 3d8. Sucker Punch is used as a Reaction. When you are a target of a melee move, use Sucker Punch to attack the attacker before the enemy rolls their Accuracy Check against you. You must still roll an accuracy check for Sucker Punch.
Swagger - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Confused and the target's Attack is +4 until they are no longer Confused.
Switcheroo - Melee Dark Effect: 1/day. On hit, you and the target trade any held items. If only you or the target has an item, take or give the item to exchange who has possession

Surf - Ranged(30ft, 10ft wave) Water Special Attack: 1/day

of it.

3d12. (No Fire-types)

Thief - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, steals the tar-

get's held item, if any.

Proficiency Lists

773

Throat Chop - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target may not use attacks or abilities that require the use of the target's voice for 5 mins.

Gravity - Psychic Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Gravity Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Within the terrain, Pokťmon may not leave the ground and any Pokťmon that are in the air are brought down to the ground. This terrain disappears after 2 mins.

Weather List
Pokťmon who can control the weather use this list.
Defog - Ranged(30ft burst) Flying Field Effect: 3/day. Any Walls, Hazards, Weather, or Terrains within range are destroyed.
Hail - Ice Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Hailing Weather with a 60ft diameter. Anyone who acts within the Hailing weather takes 2d4 damage after acting unless they are Ice Type. This weather disappears after 2 mins.
Haze - Ice Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Hazy Weather with a 60ft diameter. Within the Hazy weather, all stat altering passives are disabled. Stats cannot be altered by anything within the Hazy weather. This weather disappears after 2 mins.
Mist - Ice Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Misty Weather with a 60ft diameter. Within the Misty weather, Stats cannot be lowered. This weather disappears after 2 mins.
Rain Dance - Water Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Raining Weather with a 60ft diameter. Within the Raining weather, Water-type attacks deal an additional 8 damage and Fire-type attacks deal 8 less damage. This weather disappears after 2 mins.
Snowscape - Ice Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Snowing Weather with a 60ft diameter. Any Ice Types within Snowing Weather have +2 Defense. Pokťmon who benefit from Hailing weather with passives or the effect of moves they use also benefit from those effects in Snowing Weather. This weather disappears after 2 mins.
Sunny Day - Fire Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Sunny Weather with a 60ft diameter. Within the Sunny weather, Fire-type attacks deal an additional 8 damage and Water-type attacks deal 8 less damage. This weather disappears after 2 mins.

Lucky Chant - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 3/day. Put a Lucky Coat on all allies and yourself. The Coat has the following ability: If you are hit by a Critical Hit, treat the hit as a regular successful hit. This Coat lasts for 2 mins.
Magic Room - Psychic Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Magical Terrain with a 60ft diameter. If within the Magical terrain, Pokťmon cannot use any held items. This terrain disappears after 2 mins.
Mean Look - Ranged(10ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is bound in place for 2 mins. Ghost Pokťmon are immune to Mean Look.
Misty Terrain - Fairy Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Misty Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Within the Misty terrain, Dragon-type attacks are resisted by anyone who is not already resistant to Dragon-type attacks and afflictions cannot be given to anyone. This terrain disappears after 2 mins.
Switcheroo - Melee Dark Effect: 1/day. On hit, you and the target trade any held items. If only you or the target has an item, take or give the item to exchange who has possession of it.
Trick Room - Psychic Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Tricky Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Within the Tricky terrain, turn orders are reversed during each round. If some are outside of Tricky terrain while others are within Tricky terrain, all actions are still made in reverse order. This terrain disappears after 2 mins.
Wonder Room - Psychic Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Wonderful Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Anyone who attacks within the Wonderful terrain makes Attack Accuracy Checks against Special Defense and Special Attack Accuracy Checks against Defense. This terrain disappears after 2 mins.
Winged List

Weird List
Pokťmon who are strange and manipulate strange fields of energy in the world are weird and use weird moves.
Confuse Ray - Ranged(20ft) Ghost Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target becomes Confused.

Winged Pokťmon can learn these moves.
Aerial Ace - Melee Flying Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense.
Acrobatics - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Acrobatics cannot be used if you have a held item.
Bounce - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Bounce is a twoturn move. On the first turn, raise yourself 40 ft into the air. On the second turn, return to the ground, move up to twice your movement rate, then you may roll Bounce's Accuracy Check and damage. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed.

Proficiency Lists

774

Winged List Continued
Defog - Ranged(30ft burst) Flying Field Effect: 3/day. Any Walls, Hazards, Weather, or Terrains within range are destroyed.
Dual Wingbeat - Melee Flying Attack: 3/day 2d8. Dual Wingbeat is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks.
Fairy Wind - Ranged(20ft) Fairy Special Attack: At-Will 1d12.
Heat Wave - Ranged(25ft burst) Fire Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, targets are Burned. (No Ice or Water-types)
Ominous Wind - Ranged(10ft) Ghost Special Attack: 1/day 2d8. On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour.
Razor Wind - Ranged(30ft, 10ft wave) Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Razor Wind is a two-turn move. On the first turn, do nothing. On the second turn, you may roll Razor Wind's Accuracy Check and damage. On hit, if you got 18 or more on Accuracy Check, Razor Wind is a critical hit.
Roost - Self Flying Effect: 1/day. You must be on the ground to use Roost. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP. You lose Flying-type until your next turn.
Silver Wind - Ranged(10ft) Bug Special Attack: 1/day 2d8. On hit, your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 1 hour.
Sky Attack - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 5d12. Sky Attack is a two-turn move. On the first turn, fly up to 40 ft straight up. On the second turn, fly up to three times your movement speed, then you can roll Sky Attack's Accuracy Check and damage. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Sky Drop - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. When you use this attack, you raise yourself and an adjacent target 40 ft into the air, then you immediately end your turn. The target may only make melee attacks until your next turn. During your next turn, you return to the ground, letting go of the target and you may roll Sky Drop's Accuracy Check and damage.
Steel Wing - Melee Steel Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins.
Twister - Ranged(15ft) Dragon Special Attack: At-Will 1d12. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.
Wing Attack - Melee Flying Attack: At-Will 2d8.
*** When using custom made Pokťmon, keep these proficiency lists in mind. It will help to round out what a Pokťmon may be capable of. Take a look at the proficiency lists of Pokťmon in the Pokťdex that may be similar to a type-shifted or completely original Pokťmon if you need help getting an idea of what your Pokťmon should have access to.
775

Proficiency Lists

Signature Moves
Signature moves are a special list of moves that do not appear on any Pokťmon's proficiencies, nor do any of the moves on the list of signature moves appear on any other proficiency move list. Instead, the signature moves list contain Pokťmon moves and the specific families who are capable of learning those moves. If a Pokťmon's first stage in its family is depicted, any Pokťmon from that family can learn the signature move. If an evolved Pokťmon is depicted, the Pokťmon can only learn the signature move if it is at least that stage. Many of these signature moves already appear on a Pokťmon's naturally known move list in the Pokťdex, but are repeated here anyway.

Bind - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 damage on its turns. (Bewear, Clobbopus, Ekans, Klink, Onix, Sobble, Snivy, Tangela)
Bitter Blade - Melee Fire Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, your gain HP equal to half of the damage dealt. (Ceruledge)
Bitter Malice - Melee Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Frozen. (Froslass, Zoroark (Icy Mountain))
Blast Burn - Ranged(30ft, 10ft blast) Fire Special Attack: 1/day 5d20. Blast Burn has a recharge turn and -2 during Accuracy Check. (Blaziken, Charizard, Cinderace, Delphox, Emboar, Incineroar, Infernape, Skeledirge, Typhlosion, Typhlosion (Legend))

Accelerock - Melee Rock Attack: At-Will 2d6. Accelerock has Priority. (Lycanroc)
Anchor Shot - Melee Steel Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, the target is bound to you or in place for 1d6 rounds. (Dhelmise)

Blood Moon - Ranged(5ft burst) Normal Special Attack: 1/day 5d12. (Lunatone, Ursaluna (Blood Moon))
Bolt Beak - Melee Electric Attack: 1/day 3d8. If the target has not already acted this round, Bolt Beak deals +2d8 damage. (Arctozolt, Dracozolt)

Apple Acid - Ranged(15ft) Grass Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On Bone Club - Melee Ground Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got

hit, the target's Special Defense is -1 for 10 mins. (Appletun) 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

(Cubone) Arena Trap - Ranged(5ft burst) Ground Effect: 1/day. On hit, all

targets are bound in place for 2 mins. (Diglett, Trapinch)

Bone Rush - Melee Ground Attack: At-Will 1d4. Bone Rush has -

2 during Accuracy Check. Bone Rush is a Scatter attack. Up to 5

Arm Thrust - Melee Fighting Attack: At-Will 1d4. Arm Thrust has -2 during Accuracy Check. Arm Thrust is a Scatter attack. Up to

attacks. (Cubone, Lucario, Mandibuzz)

5 attacks. (Heracross, Makuhita, Pancham, Pawmo, Pignite) Bonemerang - Ranged(15ft) Ground Attack: 3/day 2d8.

Armor Cannon - Ranged(40ft) Fire Special Attack: 1/day 5d12.

Bonemerang is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks. (Cubone)

On hit, your Defense and Special Defense are -2 for 10 mins. Bounce - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 3d12. Bounce is a two-turn

(Armarouge)

move. On the first turn, raise yourself 40 ft into the air. On the

Aura Wheel - Melee Electric Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your

second turn, return to the ground, move up to twice your movement rate, then you may roll Bounce's Accuracy Check

Attack is +1 for 10 mins. If you are Hangry, Aura Wheel is Darktype. (Morpeko)

and damage. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed. (Buneary, Bunnelby, Croagunk, Froak-

Aqua Cutter - Melee Water Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got ie, Marill, Mienshao, Palpitoad, Poliwhirl, Rapidash , Rapidash

18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Aqua Cutter is a critical hit.

(Glade), Scorbunny, Spoink)

(Gallade, Oshawott, Quaxly, Veluza)

Branch Poke - Melee Grass Attack: At-Will 2d6. (Grookey, Phan-

Aqua Step - Melee Water Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, your Speed tump)

is +1 for 10 mins. (Quaquaval)

Burn Up - Ranged(25ft burst) Fire Special Attack: 1/day 5d12.

Baneful Bunker - Self Poison Effect: 1/day. Baneful Bunker is After use, if the user is only Fire type it becomes Normal type,

used as a Reaction. If you would be hit by a melee attack, use and if the user is Fire type and another type it loses its Fire

Baneful Bunker to instead ignore the damage and any effects typing. This effect lasts for 10 mins. (Carkol, Cyndaquil,

of the attack, and also Poison the attacker. (Toxapex)

Growlithe, Tepig, Sizzlipede)

Barb Barrage - Ranged(15ft) Poison Attack: 3/day 3d8. If the

Camouflage - Self Normal Effect: At-Will. Put on a Camo Coat.

target is afflicted, Barb Barrage has 5d8 for damage instead. The Coat has the following ability: Your type changes to reflect

On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is your surrounding for 10 mins. (If you are in a grassy field,

Poisoned. (Qwilfish (Dark Waters))

Grass type; if you are in water, Water type; if you are on a

Barrage - Ranged(10ft) Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. Barrage has 2 during Accuracy Check. Barrage is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks. (Exeggcute)

mountain, Rock type; etc.) (Deerling, Flabťbť, Froakie, Kecleon, Mothim, Skrelp, Staryu, Stunfisk, Stunfisk (Ironrich))

Ceaseless Edge - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the tar-

Beak Blast - Melee Flying Attack: 1/day 5d12. Beak Blast is a two get gains a Splinters Coat unless it already has one. The coat

-turn move. On the first turn: any character who hits you with a has the following ability: After acting, roll 1d20; on a result of

melee move until your next turn is Burned. On the second

16 or better, destroy this coat; otherwise, take 2d4 damage.

turn, move up to twice your movement speed, then you may This Coat lasts for 3 mins, or until you are at 0 or less HP.

roll Beak Blast's Accuracy Check and damage. (Toucannon)

(Samurott (Legend), Sharpedo)

Proficiency Lists

776

Chatter - Ranged(10ft burst) Flying Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, all targets are Confused. (Chatot)
Chloroblast - Ranged(30ft burst) Grass Special Attack: 1/day 4d12. You lose HP equal to half of your Max HP, then your Speed is -3 for 10 mins. (Voltorb (Antique))
Circle Throw - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, move the target 40ft away. (Kangaskhan, Pangoro, Poliwrath, Throh)
Clamp - Melee Water Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 damage on its turns. (Binacle, Clamperl, Shellder)
Clanging Scales - Ranged(10ft burst) Dragon Special Attack: 3/ day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -2 for 10 mins. (Kommo-o)

Double Shock - Melee Electric Attack: 1/day 5d12. Double Shock can only be used if you are Electric-type. After use, if the user is only Electric type it becomes Normal type, and if the user is Electric type and another type it loses its Electric typing. This effect lasts for 10 mins. (Minun, Pawmo, Plusle)
Dragon Cheer - Ranged(30ft burst) Dragon Effect: 3/day. Put a Cheer Coat on all allies and yourself. The Coat has the following ability: Your attacks are critical hits on natural 18-20. This Coat lasts for 2 min. (Hydrapple)
Dragon Darts - Ranged(10ft) Dragon Attack: 3/day 2d8. Dragon Darts is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks. (Dragapult)
Dragon Hammer - Melee Dragon Attack: 1/day 3d12. (Exeggutor (Island))
Drum Beating - Melee Grass Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins. (Rillaboom)

Clangorous Soul - Self Dragon Effect: 1/day. You lose HP equal to 1/6th of your Max HP. Your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 10 mins. (Kommo-o)
Comeuppance - Melee Dark Effect: 1/day. Comeuppance is used as a Reaction. After an adjacent enemy hits you with a move that deals damage, use Comeuppance to deal exactly 1.5x the damage to the enemy that you received. Do not apply weakness or resistances. (Honchkrow, Houndour, Mabosstiff, Zorua, Zorua (Icy Mountain))

Eerie Spell - Ranged(30ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the attack last used by the target may not be used again for 1 minute. (Slowking (Spice Diet))
Egg Bomb - Ranged(15ft) Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Egg Bomb has -2 during Accuracy Check. (Exeggcute, Chansey)
Electrify - Melee Electric Effect: 3/day. The next time the target uses an attack, the attack is treated as being Electric-type. (Boltund, Helioptile)
Electro Shot - Ranged(30ft beam) Electric Special Attack: 1/day

Constrict - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d6. On hit, the target's 5d12. Electro Shot is a two-turn move unless it is Raining. On Speed is -1 for 10 mins. (Inkay, Omanyte, Tangela, Tentacool) the first turn, do nothing. On the second turn or if it is Raining,
your Special Attack is raised +1 for 10 mins, then roll Electro

Conversion - Self Normal Effect: At-Will. Put a Type Coat on

Shot's Accuracy Check and damage. (Archaludon)

yourself. The Coat has the following ability: Your Type changes to a type matching one of your known moves for two minutes or your Type changes to a type that resists that last attack you were hit by for two minutes. (Porygon)

Electroweb - Ranged(10ft) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins. (Elekid, Grubbin, Helioptile, Joltik, Magnemite, Pichu)

Crabhammer - Melee Water Attack: 3/day 3d10. Crabhammer Eruption - Ranged(30ft burst) Fire Special Attack: 1/day 3d10. If

has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on you are at Max HP, Eruption has 5d12 for damage instead.

Accuracy Check, Crabhammer is a critical hit. (Clauncher,

(Camerupt, Cyndaquil, Torkoal)

Corphish, Crabrawler, Krabby)
Crafty Shield - Ranged(20ft burst) Fairy Effect: 3/day. Put a Crafty Coat on all allies and yourself. The Coat has the follow-

Esper Wing - Ranged(30ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, during your next action if you attack a foe, your move has priority. (Braviary (Tundra), Xatu)

ing ability: You cannot become afflicted or have any stats altered by enemies. This Coat lasts for 2 rounds. (Chimecho, Klefki, Yamask, Yamask (Stone Ruins))

Explosion - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Attack: 1/day 10d20. Set your HP to 0, then roll 1d20. On 15 or less, your HP is set to 100% HP and you must make a death saving throw. (Baltoy,

Decorate - Melee Fairy Effect: 3/day. Target an ally or yourself. Drifloon, Ferroseed, Geodude, Geodude (Iron-rich), Koffing,

The target's Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, or Lunatone, Minior, Pineco, Roggenrola, Trubbish, Solrock,

Speed is raised +2 for five mins. (Alcremie)

Voltorb, Voltorb (Antique))

Dire Claw - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 Extreme Speed - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Extreme or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is randomly either Poi- Speed has Priority and cannot be contested for Priority. soned or Paralyzed. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy (Arcanine, Dragonite, Lucario, Togekiss, Linoone)

Check, Dire Claw is a critical hit. (Sneasler, Toxicroak)

Fairy Lock - Ranged(30ft burst) Fairy Effect: 1/day. Until your

Doodle - Ranged(40ft) Normal Effect: 3/day. On hit, gain each

next turn, Pokťmon within range cannot be returned to Poke

ability passive that the target has for 10 mins. Doodle can only Balls, nor can they be caught by Poke Balls. (Klefki)

grant ability passives from one target at a time. (Grafaiai, Smeargle)

False Surrender - Melee Dark Attack: 1/day 3d12. You can't miss targets with less than 20 Defense. (Morgrem)

Proficiency Lists

777

Fickle Beam - Ranged(30ft beam) Dragon Special Attack: 1/day Glare - Ranged(20ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target be3d12. On hit, roll 1d20 with no modifiers; on a result of 11 or comes Paralyzed. (Drampa, Dunsparce, Ekans, Silicobra, greater, Fickle Beam deals +2d12 more damage. (Hydrapple) Seviper)

Fiery Dance - Ranged(20ft) Fire Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On Grass Whistle - Ranged(20ft burst) Grass Effect: 1/day. Grass

hit, your Special Attack is +2 for 10 mins. (Volcarona)

Whistle has -5 during Accuracy Check. On hit, all targets fall

Fire Lash - Melee Fire Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins. (Heatmor, Salazzle, Sizzlipede)

Asleep. (Bounsweet, Budew, Cherubi, Cottonee, Leafeon, Petilil, Snover, Sunkern, Swadloon)

Fillet Away - Self Normal Effect: 3/day. You lose HP equal to half of your Max HP, then your Attack, Special Attack and

Grav Apple - Ranged(15ft) Grass Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins. (Flapple)

Speed are +2 for 10 mins. (Veluza)

Guillotine - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day. On hit, roll 1d20. On a

First Impression - Melee Bug Attack: 1/day 3d10. First Impression has Priority. First Impression can only be used as your first action during an encounter. On hit, the target is Stunned.

natural result of 17, 18, 19, or 20, the target is set to 0 HP. (Axew, Corphish, Durant, Gligar, Krabby, Pawniard, Pinsir, Vikavolt)

(Durant, Falinks, Golisopod, Sirfetch'd)

Head Charge - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d12. On hit, you

Fishious Rend - Melee Water Attack: 1/day 3d8. If the target has lose HP equal to 1/4th of the damage you deal. (Bouffalant)

not already acted this round, Fishious Rend deals +2d8 dam- Headlong Rush - Melee Ground Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your

age. (Arctovish, Dracovish)

Defense and Special Defense are -2 for 10 mins. (Mudsdale,

Fissure - Ranged(25ft beam) Ground Attack: 1/day. On hit, roll Ursaluna)

1d20. On a natural result of 17, 18, 19, or 20, the target is set Heal Bell - Ranged(10ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. You and all

to 0 HP. (Barboach, Camerupt, Diglett, Diglett (Volcanic), Drilbur, Hippopotas, Stunfisk, Stunfisk (Iron-rich), Trapinch,

allies within range are cured of all afflictions. (Audino, Chimecho, Eevee, Miltank, Skitty, Snubbull)

Wormadam (Sandy))

Heal Order - Self Bug Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal to

Floral Healing - Melee Fairy Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or your- half of your Max HP. (Vespiquen)

self. The target is healed HP equal to half of the target's Max
HP. If you are within Grassy Terrain, the target is healed HP equal to 3/4ths of the target's Max HP instead. (Comfey)

Heart Stamp - Melee Psychic Attack: At-Will 2d8. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned. (Luvdisc, Smoochum, Woobat)

Flower Shield - Fairy Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Flowery Terrain with a 60ft diameter. While within the Flowery terrain, all Grass-types and Fairy-types have +1 Defense and +1 Special Defense. This terrain disappears after 2 mins. (Cherrim, Comfey, Florges, Sunflora)

Heat Crash - Melee Fire Attack: 3/day 3d10. Heat Crash can only target lighter targets. (Blaziken, Centiskorch, Charizard, Copperajah, Golurk, Incineroar, Rhydon, Rolycoly, Tepig, Turtonator, Stonjourner)

Flower Trick - Ranged(30ft) Grass Attack: 3/day 2d8. On hit, Flower Trick always counts as a critical hit. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense. (Meowscarada)

High Horsepower - Melee Ground Attack: 3/day 3d10. (Bouffalant, Copperajah, Deerling, Miltank, Mudbray, Ponyta, Ponyta (Glade), Skiddo, Tauros)

Flying Press - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. Flying Press counts as both a Flying and Fighting type move when determining effectiveness. (Hawlucha)

Horn Drill - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day. On hit, roll 1d20. On a natural result of 17, 18, 19, or 20, the target is set to 0 HP. (Dunsparce, Excadrill, Goldeen, Nidoqueen, Nidorino, Rapidash, Rapidash (Glade), Rhyhorn)

Forest's Curse - Ranged(15ft) Grass Effect: 3/day. On hit, put a Forest Coat on the target. The Coat has the following ability: You lose your current Types and become only Grass-type for 10 mins. (Phantump)

Horn Leech - Melee Grass Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt. (Phantump, Sawsbuck, Skiddo)

Frenzy Plant - Ranged(25ft beam) Grass Special Attack: 1/day 5d20. Frenzy Plant has a recharge turn and -2 during Accuracy Check. (Chesnaught, Decidueye, Decidueye (Legend), Meganium, Meowscarada, Rillaboom, Sceptile, Serperior, Torterra, Venusaur)

Hydro Cannon - Ranged(25ft beam) Water Special Attack: 1/day 5d20. Hydro Cannon has a recharge turn and -2 during Accuracy Check. (Blastoise, Empoleon, Feraligatr, Greninja, Inteleon, Primarina, Quaquaval, Samurott, Samurott (Legend), Swampert)

Gear Grind - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 2d8. Gear Grind is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks. (Klink)

Hyper Drill - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Hyper Drill cannot be prevented by reaction moves. (Dunsparce, Excadrill, Nidoqueen, Nidorino, Rhyhorn)

Gigaton Hammer - Ranged(5ft burst) Steel Attack: 1/day 5d12. (Tinkaton)

Ice Ball - Melee Ice Attack: At-Will 1d6. For each time you've successfully used Ice Ball against the same target during the

Glaive Rush - Melee Dragon Attack: 1/day 5d12. Until your next encounter, add 1d6 to Ice Ball's damage. (Bergmite, turn, you take double the damage you would from successful Sandshrew (Icy Mountain), Spheal)

attacks. (Baxcalibur)

Ice Hammer - Melee Ice Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, your Speed

is -1 for 10 mins. (Crabominable)

Proficiency Lists

778

Infernal Parade - Ranged(30ft) Ghost Special Attack: 1/day 3d8. If the target is afflicted, Infernal Parade has 3d12 for damage instead. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned. (Chandelure, Typhlosion (Legend))

Mat Block - Ranged(10ft) Fighting Effect: 1/day. Mat Block is used as a Reaction. If an ally within range would be hit by an attack, use Mat Block to instead move to that ally, who ignores the damage and any effects of the attack. (Greninja, Throh)

Ingrain - Self Grass Effect: 1/day. Put a Root Coat on yourself. The Coat has the following ability: At the beginning of your turn, recover 1d12 HP. You may not move. This Coat lasts for 2 mins. (Budew, Cacnea, Carnivine, Ferroseed, Fomantis, Lileep, Maractus, Phantump, Snover, Sunkern, Tangela)
Instruct - Ranged(15ft) Psychic Effect: 3/day. Targeted ally may immediately act if they haven't this round. (Oranguru)
Ion Deluge - Electric Field Effect: 3/day. You create a circle of Ionic Terrain with a 60ft diameter. Within the Ionic terrain, all Normal-type attacks become Electric-type attacks. This terrain disappears after 2 mins. (Ampharos, Chinchou, Eelektross,

Matcha Gotcha - Melee Grass Special Attack: 3/day 2d10. On hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt. On hit, if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned. (Sinistcha)
Meteor Assault - Melee Fighting Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, the target is Stunned. This move has a Recharge turn. (Sirfetch'd)
Meteor Mash - Melee Steel Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, your Attack is +1 for 10 mins. (Clefairy, Lucario, Metang)
Metronome - Normal Effect: 3/day. Immediately use a random attack (non-Legendary). (Clefairy, Munchlax, Togepi)

Electivire, Zebstrika)

Milk Drink - Melee Normal Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or your-

Jaw Lock - Melee Dark Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target is bound to you. (Chewtle)

self. The target is healed HP equal to half of the target's Max HP. (Miltank, Skiddo)

Jet Punch - Melee Water Attack: 3/day 3d8. Jet Punch has Priority. (Hitmonchan, Palafin)

Mind Reader - Ranged(40ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. Mind Reader can't miss. Your next attack against the same target will not miss. (Breloom, Meditite, Mime Jr., Poliwrath, Tyrogue)

Kinesis - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Effect: At-Will. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn. (Kadabra)

Minimize - Self Normal Effect: 3/day. Until your next turn, attacks made against you have -2 during Accuracy Check.

King's Shield - Self Steel Effect: 1/day. King's Shield is used as a (Cleffa, Drifloon, Grimer, Grimer (Oil), Happiny, Qwilfish)

Reaction. If you would be hit by a melee attack, use King's Shield to instead ignore the damage and any effects of the attack, and also the attacker's Attack is -4 for 10 mins. (Aegislash)

Miracle Eye - Self Psychic Effect: 3/day. You can hit Dark-types with Psychic type moves as if they are not immune to that type of attacks for two mins. (Abra, Elgyem, Natu, Sigilyph)

Kowtow Cleave - Melee Dark Attack: 1/day 3d12. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense. (Kingambit)

Mirror Shot - Ranged(20ft) Steel Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. (Ferroseed, Forretress, Klefki, Klink, Magnemite, Wormadam (Trash), Vanillite)

Last Respects - Melee Ghost Attack: 1/day 1d12. Last Respects deals +1d12 damage for each ally who has been knocked out this encounter (max +7d12). (Basculegion, Houndstone, Spiritomb)

Misty Explosion - Ranged(30ft burst) Fairy Special Attack: 1/day 7d20. Set your HP to 0, then roll 1d20. On 10 or less, your HP is set to -100% HP and you must make a death saving throw. (Alcremie, Aromatisse, Carbink, Clefairy, Jigglypuff, Mushar-

Leaf Tornado - Ranged(10ft) Grass Special Attack: At-Will 2d8. na, Slurpuff, Weezing (Heavy Pollution))

(Carnivine, Gossifleur, Shiftry, Snivy, Tropius, Victreebel)

Moonlight - Melee Fairy Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or yourself.

Lovely Kiss - Melee Normal Effect: 3/day. Lovely Kiss has -3 dur- The target is healed HP equal to half of the target's Max HP. If

ing Accuracy Check. On hit, the target is put Asleep. (Smoochum)

you are within Sunny Weather, the target is healed HP equal to 3/4ths of the target's Max HP instead. (Clefairy, Dustox,

Lumina Crash - Ranged(30ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Special Defense is -2 for 10 mins.

Illumise, Lunatone, Morelull, Munna, Noivern, Oddish, Umbreon, Volbeat)

(Espathra)

Morning Sun - Melee Normal Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or

Magic Powder - Melee Psychic Effect: 3/day. On hit, put a Weird Coat on the target. The Coat has the following ability: You lose your current Types and become only Psychic-type for 10 mins. (Hatterene)

yourself. The target is healed HP equal to half of the target's
Max HP. If you are within Sunny Weather, the target is healed HP equal to 3/4ths of the target's Max HP instead. (Beautifly,
Cherubi, Espeon, Solrock, Sunkern)

Magnet Bomb - Ranged(25ft) Steel Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss targets with less than 15 Defense. (Magnemite, Probopass)

Mortal Spin - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 1d8. Destroy any Coats, and free bound allies within 5 ft. You may target Coats, or bound allies with Mortal Spin without needing to roll Accuracy Check or damage. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accu-

Make it Rain - Ranged(10ft burst) Steel Special Attack: 1/day

racy Check, the target is Poisoned. (Glimmora)

5d12. After use, your Special Attack is -4 for 10 mins. (Gholdengo)

Mountain Gale - Ranged(30ft) Ice Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned.

(Avalugg, Avalugg (Mountainous), Glalie)

Proficiency Lists

779

Needle Arm - Melee Grass Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned. (Cacnea, Maractus, Quilladin)
Night Daze - Ranged(10ft) Dark Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -1 during their next turn. (Zoroark)
No Retreat - Self Fighting Effect: 3/day. As a free action, as long as you can see a foe, you cannot move away from them, or be returned to a Poke Ball until you are knocked out. Your Attack, Special Attack, Defense, Special Defense, and Speed are each raised +1 for 10 mins. (Falinks)

Pollen Puff - Ranged(10ft) Bug Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit, you may choose to deal damage with Pollen Puff or heal the target's HP equal to the amount of damage Pollen Puff would have dealt. (Comfey, Eldegoss, Lilligant, Ribombee)
Power Whip - Melee Grass Attack: 1/day 5d12. Power Whip has -2 during Accuracy Check. (Carnivine, Dhelmise, Ferrothorn, Goodra, Lickitung, Tangela, Tsareena, Venusaur, Victreebel)
Present - Ranged(10ft) Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, you may choose to deal damage with Present or heal the target's HP equal to the amount of damage Present would have dealt. (Delibird)

Obstruct - Self Dark Effect: 1/day. Obstruct is used as a Reac- Psycho Shift - Melee Psychic Effect: 1/day. On hit, you are cured

tion. If you would be hit by an attack, use Obstruct to instead of all afflictions and the target receives each affliction you were

ignore the damage and any effects of the attack. Also, if the

cured of. (Noctowl, Xatu)

ignored attack was a melee attack, the attacker's Defense is -1 for 10 mins. (Obstagoon)

Psyshield Bash - Melee Psychic Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, your Defense and Special Defense are each raised +1 for 10 mins.

Octolock - Melee Fighting Effect: 3/day. On hit, the target is

(Wyrdeer, Duosion)

bound to you for 1d6 rounds. While the target is bound, the target's Defense and Special Defense is -1. (Grapploct, Octillery)

Purify - Melee Poison Effect: 3/day. Target an ally or yourself. Target is cured of Poison and Toxin, then if they were cured of Poison or Toxin they are healed 1d20 HP. (Pyukumuku)

Octazooka - Ranged(15ft) Water Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Accuracy Checks are -3 during their next turn. (Grapploct, Kingdra, Octillery)

Pyro Ball - Ranged(40ft) Fire Attack: 1/day 5d12. Pyro Ball has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Burned. (Cinderace)

Odor Sleuth - Self Normal Effect: At-Will. You can hit Ghosttypes with Normal and Fighting type moves as if they are not immune to those types of attacks for two mins. (Electrike, Furfrou, Growlithe, Houndour, Lillipup, Poochyena, Rockruff, Snubbull, Spoink, Swinub, Tepig, Ursaluna, Yamper)

Rage Fist - Melee Ghost Attack: 3/day 1d8. Rage Fist deals +1d8 damage for each time you have been hit during this encounter by an attack that dealt damage (max +7d8). (Hitmonchan, Mankey)

Order Up - Ranged(30ft) Dragon Attack: 3/day 3d8. If you have a Tatsugiri in your mouth using its Commander passive, Order Up will additionally have an effect depending on the form of the Tatsugiri: [Curly] Your Attack is +2 for 10 mins, [Droopy] your Defense is +2 for 10 mins, or [Stretchy] your Speed is +2

Raging Bull - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d10. Raging Bull's type can change to match one of your types before you roll to hit. Destroy any Wall or Hazard effects that you move through while using Raging Bull. (Bouffalant, Granbull, Miltank, Tauros)

for 10 mins. (Dondozo)

Raging Fury - Melee Fire Attack: At-Will 1d8. For each time

Overdrive - Ranged(10ft burst) Electric Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. (Toxtricity)

you've successfully used Raging Fury against the same target during the encounter, add 1d8 to Raging Fury's damage. Foes deal an additional 1d8 to you with attacks if you have used

Parabolic Charge - Melee Electric Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. On Raging Fury in the last minute. (Arcanine (Ancient), Infernape)

hit, you regain HP equal to half of the damage dealt. (Dedenne, Helioptile)

Razor Shell - Melee Water Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins. (Binacle, Carracosta, Drednaw,

Perish Song - Ranged(40ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. All possi- Oshawott, Shellder, Slowbro, Slowbro (Spice Diet), Slowking,

ble Pokťmon targets including yourself receive 3 Perish Coats. Slowking (Spice Diet))

The Coats have the following ability: After acting, destroy one of your Perish Coats. If this is the third Perish Coat you've destroyed this way during this encounter, set your HP to 0. (Absol, Altaria, Cursola, Jynx, Kricketune, Lapras, Misdreavus, Politoed, Primarina)

Recover - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal to half of your Max HP. (Abra, Accelgor, Bergmite, Corsola, Elgyem, Mareanie, Meditite, Milcery, Milotic, Pincurchin, Porygon, Pyukumuku, Shellos, Slugma, Solosis, Staryu)

Poison Tail - Melee Poison Attack: 3/day 1d12. On hit, if you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned; if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, Poison Tail is a critical hit. (Ekans, Gligar, Goodra, Nidoran, Seviper, Silicobra, Skorupi, Skrelp, Venipede)

Reflect Type - Ranged(30ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. On hit, put a Ref Coat on yourself. The Coat has the following ability: Your Type changes to any one type that the target had. This effect lasts for 10 mins. (Castform, Staryu, Stunfisk, Stunfisk (Ironrich), Tentacruel)

Population Bomb - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 1d4. Population Bomb is a Scatter attack. Up to 10 attacks. (Maushold)

Revelation Dance - Ranged(10ft burst) Variable Special Attack: 1/ day 3d12. This attack's type is dependent on your primary type. (Oricorio)

Proficiency Lists

Revival Blessing - Melee Normal Effect: 1/day. Target ally at 0 or less HP is healed to half Max HP. (Pawmot, Rabsca)

780

Rock Wrecker - Ranged(25ft, 10ft blast) Rock Attack: 1/day 5d20. Silk Trap - Self Bug Effect: 1/day. Silk Trap is used as a Reaction.

Rock Wrecker has a recharge turn and -2 during Accuracy

If you would be hit by an attack, use Silk Trap to instead ignore

Check. (Crustle, Rhyperior)

the damage and any effects of the attack. Also, if the ignored

Sacred Sword - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 3d10. Sacred Sword has +2 during Accuracy Check. (Aegislash)

attack was a melee attack, the attacker's Speed is ≠2 for 10 mins. (Dewpider, Joltik, Sewaddle, Shuckle, Spinarak, Surskit, Swirlix, Tarountula)

Salt Cure - Ranged(10ft) Rock Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target gets a Salt Coat. The Coat has the following ability: At the beginning of your turn, you lose 1d6 HP. If you are Steel-type or Water-type, you lose 2d6 HP instead. This Coat lasts for 3 mins, or until you are at 0 or less HP. (Garganacl)

Sketch - Ranged(25ft) Normal Effect: 1/day. You permanently learn the target's last-used move. If Sketch is used to learn a Move when you already know 6 Moves, the new move replaces Sketch. Sketch fails if used by anything but a Smeargle. (Smeargle)

Self-Destruct - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Attack: 1/day 7d20. Set your HP to 0, then roll 1d20. On 10 or less, your HP is set to -100% HP and you must make a death saving throw. (Baltoy, Drifloon, Ferroseed, Geodude, Geodude (Iron-rich), Koffing, Lunatone, Minior, Pineco, Roggenrola, Trubbish, Solrock, Voltorb, Voltorb (Antique))

Skull Bash - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day 5d12. Skull Bash is a two-turn move. On the first turn: Your Defense is increased to 15 until your next turn (do not decrease it if it is higher). On the second turn, move up to twice your movement speed, then roll Skull Bash's Accuracy Check and damage. (Avalugg, Bouffalant, Chewtle, Cubone, Rhyhorn, Sharpedo, Squirtle,

Shadow Bone - Melee Ghost Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the

Torkoal)

target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins. (Marowak (Volcanic))

Slack Off - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal

Shadow Punch - Melee Ghost Attack: 3/day 3d8. You can't miss to half of your Max HP. (Chimchar, Hippopotas, Mr. Rime,

targets with less than 15 Defense. (Dusclops, Golett, Haunter) Slakoth, Slowpoke, Slowpoke (Spice Diet))

Shadow Tag - Ranged(10ft) Psychic Effect: 1/day. On hit, the tar- Sludge - Ranged(15ft) Poison Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, if

get is bound in place for 2 mins. Ghost Pokťmon are immune you got 14 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.

to Shadow Tag. (Gengar, Gothita, Wynaut)

(Grimer, Gulpin, Koffing, Trubbish)

Sheer Cold - Ranged(15ft, 10ft wave) Ice Special Attack: 1/day. Smelling Salts - Melee Normal Attack: 3/day 3d8. If Smelling

On hit, roll 1d20. On a natural result of 17, 18, 19, or 20, the Salts is used against a Paralyzed target, Smelling Salts deals

target is set to 0 HP. (Beartic, Dewgong, Glalie, Lapras,

5d8 for damage instead, then cures the target of Paralysis. If

Ninetales (Icy Mountain), Sealeo, Snover, Vanillite)

you choose not to roll damage while using Smelling Salt, you

do not need to roll an Accuracy Check. (Croagunk, Makuhita,

Shell Side Arm - Ranged(20ft) Poison Variable Attack: 3/day 3d10. Shell Side Arm's Accuracy Check is made against the tar-

Mankey, Mienfoo)

get's Defense or Special Defense and Shell Side Arm's Accuracy Snap Trap - Melee Grass Attack: 3/day 2d6. On hit, the target is

Check is made with your Attack or Special Attack, both chosen bound to you for 1 min. (Stunfisk (Iron-rich))

before Accuracy Check. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accu-

racy Check, the target is Poisoned. (Slowbro (Spice Diet))

Snipe Shot - Ranged(40ft) Water Special Attack: 3/day 3d10.

Snipe Shot cannot be redirected by passives or any other abil-

Shell Smash - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. As a free action, your ity, instead only hitting a target it was directed at. (Inteleon)

Defense and Special Defense are -3, then your Attack, Special Attack and Speed are +3 for 10 mins. (Binacle, Chewtle, Clamperl, Dwebble, Omanyte, Shellder, Shuckle, Squirtle, Magcargo, Minior, Sinistea, Tirtouga, Torkoal, Turtonator)

Soft Boiled - Melee Normal Effect: 1/day. Target an ally or yourself. The target is healed HP equal to half of the target's Max HP. (Happiny)

Shed Tail - Self Normal Effect: 1/day. Shed Tail is used as a Re-
action. If you would be hit by an attack that would deal more than 1/3rd of your Max HP in damage, use Shed Tail to instead
ignore the damage and effects of the attack, but also lose HP equal to 1/3rd of your Max HP. Then, move up to 40 ft.
(Cyclizar, Orthworm, Sceptile)

Sparkling Aria - Ranged(20ft burst) Water Special Attack: 1/day 3d12. Sparkling Aria cures any ally's Burns within range without damaging them. (Lapras, Primarina)
Spicy Extract - Melee Grass Effect: 3/day. Target an ally, a foe, or yourself. The target's Attack is +3 and the target's Defense is -3 for 10 mins. Spicy Extract cannot miss. (Scovillain)

Shell Trap - Self Fire Special Attack: 1/day. Shell Trap is used as Spider Web - Ranged(20ft) Bug Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is

a Reaction. If you would be hit by a melee attack, use Shell

bound in place for 1d6 turns. (Dewpider, Joltik, Spinarak)

Trap to make the attacker take 3d12 Fire-type Special Attack

damage after you take the damage and any effects of the trig- Spiky Shield - Self Grass Effect: 1/day. Spiky Shield is used as a

gering attack. You do not need to roll an accuracy check to hit Reaction. If an enemy within melee range would hit you with

the offender, and they take the damage from Shell Trap even if an attack, use Spiky Shield to instead ignore the damage and

their attack knocks you out or otherwise prevents you from

any effects of the attack, and also the enemy loses HP equal to

acting. (Turtonator)

1/6th of its Max HP. (Cacturne, Chesnaught, Maractus,

Togedemaru)

Shore Up - Self Ground Effect: 1/day. You are healed HP equal

to half of your Max HP. If you are within Sandstorming Weath- Spin Out - Ranged(10ft burst) Steel Attack: 1/day 3d12. On hit,

er, you are healed HP equal to 3/4ths of your Max HP instead. your Speed is -2 for 10 mins. (Varoom)

(Sandygast)

Proficiency Lists

781

Spirit Break - Melee Fairy Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target's Special Attack is -1 for 10 mins. (Grimmsnarl)

Torch Song - Ranged(30ft) Fire Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, your Special Attack is +2 for 10 mins. (Skeledirge)

Spirit Shackle - Ranged(25ft) Ghost Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, the target is bound to the ground for 1d6 rounds. (Decidueye)

Toxic Thread - Ranged(20ft) Poison Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is Poisoned and the target's Speed is -1 until they are no longer Poisoned. (Spinarak)

Spore - Melee Grass Effect: 1/day. On hit, the target is put to

Transform - Ranged(25ft) Normal Effect: At-Will. You transform

Sleep. (Foongus, Morelull, Paras, Shroomish)

into a copy of the target changing all of your stats except for

Sticky Web - Ranged(25ft burst) Bug Effect: 3/day. Place the Sticky Web Hazard in the area surrounding you. Sticky Web Hazard has the following ability: Foes moving through Sticky Web Hazard on the ground have -25ft movement per turn, to a minimum of 5ft. This Hazard disappears after 2 mins. (Dewpider, Joltik, Sewaddle, Shuckle, Spinarak, Surskit,

HP. You copy its stats, skills, and passives. You can use any of the target's moves. While transformed, you lose access to your regular moves, skills, passives, and biology. Except for stats, this information is not provided to you. Transform may not target Legendary Pokťmon. Transform lasts for 2 hours or until Ditto chooses to change back as an action. (Ditto)

Swirlix)

Tri Attack - Ranged(20ft) Normal Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On

Stone Axe - Melee Rock Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target gains a Splinters Coat unless it already has one. The coat has the following ability: After acting, roll 1d20; on a result of 16 or better, destroy this coat; otherwise, take 2d4 damage. This

hit, if you got 17 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is randomly either Paralyzed, Burned, or Frozen. (Beheeyem, Dodrio, Dugtrio, Dugtrio (Volcanic), Hydreigon, Magneton, Porygon, Probopass, Togekiss)

Coat lasts for 3 mins, or until you are at 0 or less HP. (Haxorus, Trick-or-Treat - Melee Ghost Effect: 3/day. On hit, put a Treat

Kleavor)

Coat on the target. The Coat has the following ability: You lose

Storm Throw - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 2d8. Storm Throw has -2 during Accuracy Check. On hit, Storm Throw always

your current Types and become only Ghost-type for 10 mins. (Pumpkaboo)

counts as a critical hit and moves the target 5ft away from you. Triple Arrows - Ranged(30ft) Fighting Attack: 3/day 1d12. Triple

(Pinsir, Throh)

Arrows is a Scatter attack. Up to 3 attacks. Triple Arrow's third

Strange Steam - Ranged(10ft burst) Fairy Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 16 or higher on Accuracy Check, any

attack on hit deals an additional 1d12 damage. On hit, any target's Defense is -1 for 10 mins. (Decidueye (Legend))

targets are Confused. (Weezing (Heavy Pollution))

Triple Dive - Melee Water Attack: 3/day 1d12. Triple Dive is a

Scatter attack. Up to 3 attacks. Triple Dive's third attack on hit

Strength Sap - Melee Grass Effect: 1/day. On hit, you are healed deals an additional 1d12 damage. (Wugtrio)

HP equal to the target's Attack stat, then the target's Attack is -

2 for 10 mins. (Corsola (Dead Seas), Drifblim, Morelull,

Triple Kick - Melee Fighting Attack: 3/day 1d12. Triple Kick is a

Polteageist)

Scatter attack. Up to 3 attacks. Triple Kick's third attack on hit

deals an additional 1d12 damage. (Hitmontop)

Stuff Cheeks - Self Normal Effect: At-Will. As a free action con-

sume your held Berry. Your Defense is +2 for 10 mins.

Trop Kick - Melee Grass Attack: 3/day 3d8. On hit, the target's

(Skwovet)

Attack is -1 for 10 mins. (Tsareena)

Super Fang - Melee Normal Attack: 1/day. On hit, the target's current HP is halved. (Bidoof, Bunnelby, Dedenne, Maushold, Nidoran, Pachirisu, Patrat, Rattata, Sentret, Skwovet, Yungoos)

Twin Beam - Ranged(30ft) Psychic Special Attack: 3/day 2d8. Twin Beam is a Scatter attack. It has two attacks. (Girafarig)
Vise Grip - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 2d8. (Clauncher, Corphish, Durant, Grubbin, Klink, Krabby, Mawile, Pinsir)

Syrup Bomb - Ranged(15ft) Grass Special Attack: 3/day 3d10. On Victory Dance - Self Fighting Effect: 1/day. Your Attack, Special

hit, the target's Speed is -1 for 10 mins. (Dipplin)

Attack, Defense, and Special Defense are all +2 for 5 mins.

Tar Shot - Ranged(20ft) Rock Effect: 3/day. Put a Tar Coat on the (Kirlia, Lilligant (High Mountain), Ludicolo, Oricorio)

target. The Coat has the following ability: Your Speed is -2. If you are hit by a Fire-type attack, you take +8 damage. This Coat lasts for 2 mins. (Coalossal)

Vine Whip - Ranged(20ft) Grass Attack: At-Will 2d8. (Bulbasaur, Bellsprout, Carnivine, Chespin, Chikorita, Comfey, Flabťbť, Pansage, Skiddo, Snivy, Tangela)

Tea Time - Ranged(40ft burst) Normal Effect: 3/day. Any target holding a Berry immediately consumes it. (Sinistea)
Teeter Dance - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Effect: 1/day. On hit, all targets are Confused. (Bounsweet, Grumpig, Lilligant, Lombre, Mime Jr., Oricorio, Spinda)
Tidy Up - Ranged(30ft burst) Normal Field Effect: 3/day. Any Hazards or Coats within range are destroyed. If you destroyed any Hazards or Coats, your Attack is +1 and your Speed is +1 for 10 mins. (Indeedee, Tandemaus)

Volt Tackle - Melee Electric Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal and if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Paralyzed. (Pichu)
Water Shuriken - Ranged(15ft) Water Special Attack: At-Will 1d4. Water Shuriken has Priority and is a Scatter attack. Up to 5 attacks. (Accelgor, Greninja)
Water Spout - Ranged(30ft burst) Water Special Attack: 1/day 3d10. If you are at Max HP, Water Spout has 5d12 for damage instead. (Frillish, Wailmer)

Proficiency Lists

782

Weather Ball - Ranged(25ft) Normal Special Attack: 3/day 3d8. If within weather, Weather Ball has 5d8 for damage instead and its type changes to match the weather. (Bronzong, Castform, Eiscue, Eldegoss, Roserade, Vanilluxe) Wood Hammer - Melee Grass Attack: 1/day 5d12. On hit, you lose HP equal to 1/3rd of the damage you deal. (Chesnaught, Exeggutor, Exeggutor (Island), Komala, Phantump, Rillaboom, Snover, Sudowoodo, Torterra) Wrap - Melee Normal Attack: At-Will 1d4. On hit, the target is bound to you for 1d4 rounds. For each round the target is bound, it takes 1d4 damage on its turns. (Bellsprout, Chingling, Comfey, Dhelmise, Dratini, Ekans, Inkay, Lickitung, Lileep, Milotic, Seviper, Shuckle, Silicobra, Sizzlipede, Snivy, Tentacool) Zing Zap - Melee Electric Attack: 3/day 3d10. On hit, if you got 18 or higher on Accuracy Check, the target is Stunned. (Pincurchin, Togedemaru)
These Pokťmon move lists are a starting point. While it helps to round out potential options for your Pokťmon, and these signature moves here can help give special unique options to certain families, players and GMs can work together to create more opportunities for fun gameplay. Maybe a parent can pass on a move to a child that is outside the child's usual list of proficiencies? With a homebrew species, maybe they should have access to a signature move like Super Fang because they also have protruding incisors like the other Pokťmon who have exclusive access to the move?
In turn, tutors and TMs do not only have to teach moves. There could be a Technical Record that imparts stat passives to Pokťmon who fit the spirit of the passive or even tutors who spend a great deal of time imparting actual passives to a Pokťmon. While your GM gets the final say, discussion is a great place to start when finding a fun way to make your Pokťmon special to you (preferably outside of game, no reason to halt play in the middle of a session).
783

Proficiency Lists

Index - Alphabetical

This is all off right now and doesn't include new Scarlet and Violet expansion Pokťmon

INDEXES
Pokťmon in Alphabetical Order
A Abomasnow Abra Absol Accelgor Aegislash Aerodactyl Aggron Aipom Alakazam Alcremie Alomomola Altaria Amaura Ambipom Amoonguss Ampharos Annihilape Anorith Appletun Applin Araquanid Arbok Arboliva Arcanine (Ancient) Arcanine Archen Archeops Arctibax Arctovish Arctozolt Ariados Armaldo Armarouge Aromatisse Aron Arrokuda Audino
Aurorus Avalugg (Mountainous) Avalugg Axew Azumarill Azurill

364  548  171  121  629  616  623  456  549  240  710  190  594  456  355  199  249  596  370  369  670  524  341  283  281  597 
597 
182 
711 
220  123  596  295  243  622  657  502 
594  431  430  174  647  646 

B Bagon Baltoy Banette Barbaracle Barboach Barraskewda Basculegion Basculin
Bastiodon
Baxcalibur
Bayleef Beartic Beautifly Beedrill Beheeyem
Beldum Bellibolt Bellossom Bellsprout Bergmite Bewear Bibarel Bidoof Binacle Bisharp
Blastoise
Blaziken Blipbug Blissey Blitzle Boldore Boltund Bombirdier
Bonsly
Bouffalant Bounsweet
Braixen Brambleghast Bramblin Braviary (Tundra) Braviary Breloom
Brionne Bronzong Bronzor Bruxish Budew Buizel
Bulbasaur Buneary Bunnelby Burmy Butterfree

176  386  323  599  658  657  660  660 
611 
183 
024  420  101  099  562 
624  211  343  330  430  491  458  458  599  146 
059 
045  086  437  206  590  218  303 
600 
503  332 
050  345  345  571  482  361 
070  632  632  712  334  661 
022  459  461  132  089 

C Cacnea Cacturne Camerupt Capsakid Carbink Carkol Carnivine
Carracosta Carvanha Cascoon Castform Caterpie Centiskorch Ceruledge Cetitan Cetoddle Chandelure Chansey Charcadet Charizard Charjabug Charmander
Charmeleon Chatot Cherrim Cherubi Chesnaught
Chespin Chewtle Chikorita
Chimchar
Chimecho Chinchou Chingling
Cinccino
Cinderace Clamperl Clauncher Clawitzer Claydol Clefable Clefairy Cleffa Clobbopus Clodsire Cloyster Coalossal Cofagrigus Combee Combusken
Comfey Conkeldurr

784

346  346  286  348  617  592  375 
697  663  102  503  088  290  296  418  418  311  436  295  041  090  040 
040  504  349  349  033 
032  664  024 
046 
559  666  559 
476 
055  706  667  667  386  231  230  230  252  540  691  593  326  103  044 
245  251 

This is all off right now and doesn't include new Scarlet and Violet expansion Pokťmon

Copperajah

634  Dondozo

Corphish

669  Donphan

Corsola (Dead Seas)

312  Dottler

Corsola

713  Doublade

Corviknight Corvisquire Cottonee Crabominable Crabrawler
Cradily Cramorant
Cranidos Crawdaunt Croagunk

301  300  351  254  254 
606  304 
602  669  522 

Dracovish Dracozolt Dragalge Dragapult Dragonair Dragonite Drakloak Drampa Drapion

Crobat

521  Dratini

Crocalor

056  Drednaw

Croconaw

060  Dreepy

Crustle Cryogonal Cubchoo Cubone

106  Drifblim
434  Drifloon 420  Drilbur 278  / 388  Drizzile

Cufant

634  Drowzee

Cursola

312  Druddigon

Cutiefly

105  Dubwool

Cyclizar

192  Ducklett

Cyndaquil

042  Dudunsparce

Dugtrio (Volcanic)

D

Dugtrio

Dachsbun Darmanitan (Icy Mountain) Darmanitan Dartrix Darumaka (Icy Mountain) Darumaka

238  421  280 
034  421  280 

Dunsparce Duosion Duraludon Durant Dusclops Dusknoir

Decidueye (Legend)

035  Duskull

Decidueye

035  Dustox

Dedenne

221  Dwebble

Deerling Deino Delcatty Delibird
Delphox Dewgong Dewott Dewpider Dhelmise Diggersby Diglett (Volcanic) Diglett Ditto Dodrio Doduo Dolliv

462  142  485  435 
051  690  066  670  327  461  391  389  505  464  464  340 

E Eelektrik
Eelektross Eevee Eiscue Ekans Eldegoss Electabuzz Electivire Electrike Electrode (Antique) Electrode Elekid Elgyem Emboar
Emolga

714  400  086  628  711  220  536  181  178  179  180  506  534  178  664  180  314  314  392  072  560  192  495  672  465  391  389  465  554  641  138  306  307  306  102  106 
204  205  079  435  524  357  194  195  208  215  214  194  562  049  221 

Empoleon Escavalier Espathra Espeon Espurr Excadrill Exeggcute Exeggutor (Island) Exeggutor Exploud
F Falinks Farfetch'd (Massive Leek)
Farfetch'd
Farigiraf Fearow Feebas
Fennekin
Feraligatr Ferroseed Ferrothorn Fidough Finizen Finneon Flaaffy Flabťbť Flamigo Flapple Flareon Fletchinder Fletchling Flittle Floatzel Floette Floragato Florges Flygon Fomantis Foongus Forretress Fraxure Frigibax Frillish Froakie
Frogadier Froslass Frosmoth Fuecoco Furfrou Furret

065  109  563  081  577  392  371  372  371  455 
268  255  507  467  488  673  050  061  352  352  238  675  676  198  232  305  369  080  274  274  563  661  232  038  233  385  354  355  118  174  182  678  068  068  433  426  056  507  483 
785

Index - Alphabetical

Index - Alphabetical

This is all off right now and doesn't include new Scarlet and Violet expansion Pokťmon

G Gabite Gallade Galvantula Garbodor Garbodor Garchomp Gardevoir Garganacl Gastly Gastrodon Gengar Geodude (Iron-rich) Geodude Gholdengo
Gible Gigalith Gimmighoul
Girafarig Glaceon Glalie Glameow Gligar
Glimmet
Glimmora Gliscor Gloom Gogoat Golbat Goldeen Golduck Golem (Iron-rich) Golem Golett Golisopod
Golurk
Goodra (Iron-rich)
Goodra
Goomy Gorebyss Gossifleur Gothita Gothitelle Gothorita Gourgeist Grafaiai Granbull Grapploct Graveler (Iron-rich) Graveler Greavard Greedent Greninja Grimer (Oil Polluted)

184  557  108  533  539 
185  557  589  308  693  309  584  582 
635 
184  591  635 
467  082  432  468  394 
603 
603  394  342  363  520  679  687  585  583  395  129 
395 
627 
187 
186  / 626  707  357  550  551  550  320  533  241  252  584  582  315  486 
069  527 

Grimer Grimmsnarl Grookey Grotle
Grovyle Growlithe (Ancient) Growlithe Grubbin Grumpig Gulpin Gumshoos Gurdurr Gyarados
H Hakamo-o
Happiny Hariyama Hatenna Hatterene Hattrem Haunter Hawlucha Haxorus Heatmor Heliolisk Helioptile Heracross Herdier Hippopotas Hippowdon Hitmonchan Hitmonlee Hitmontop Honchkrow Honedge Hoothoot Hoppip Horsea Houndoom Houndour Houndstone Huntail Hydreigon Hypno
I Igglybuff Illumise Impidimp Incineroar Indeedee Infernape Inkay

525  145  036  028  026  283  281  090  572  528  497  250  682 
188  436  257  552  553  552  308  269  175  297  209  209  139  440  397  397  267  266  267  156  628  470  336  648  150  150  315  706  143  560 
438  141  144  053  578  047  152 

Inteleon Ivysaur
J Jangmo-o Jellicent Jigglypuff Jolteon Joltik Jumpluff Jynx
K Kabuto Kabutops Kadabra Kakuna Kangaskhan Karrablast Kecleon Kilowattrel Kingambit Kingdra Kingler Kirlia Klang Klawf Kleavor Klefki Klink Klinklang Koffing Komala Kommo-o Krabby Kricketot Kricketune Krokorok Krookodile
L Lairon Lampent Lanturn Lapras Larvesta Larvitar Leafeon Leavanny Lechonk Ledian Ledyba Lickilicky Lickitung

786

073  022 
188  678  438  080  108  337  424 
605  605  548  098  508  109  509  217  147  649  681  556  630  617  137  642  630  631  542  510  189  681  111  111  380  381 
622  310  666  715  112  586  082  095  471  114  114  473  473 

This is all off right now and doesn't include new Scarlet and Violet expansion Pokťmon

Liepard Lileep Lilligant (High Mountain) Lilligant Lillipup Linoone (Urban) Linoone Litleo
Litten Litwick Lokix Lombre Lopunny Lotad Loudred Lucario Ludicolo Lumineon Lunatone Lurantis Luvdisc Luxio Luxray Lycanroc
M Mabosstiff Machamp Machoke Machop Magby Magcargo Magikarp Magmar Magmortar Magnemite Magneton Magnezone Makuhita Malamar Mamoswine Mandibuzz Manectric Mankey
Mantine
Mantyke Maractus Mareanie Mareep Marill Marowak (Volcanic) Marowak
Marshtomp Maschiff Masquerain

161  606  374  373  440  148  498  284  052  310  115  650  459  650  454  263  651  676  619  354  716  202  203  614 
153  247  246  246  276  292  682  276  277  196  196  197  257  152  415  168  208  248  684 
684  376  530  198  646  278  388  062  153  124 

Maushold

494 

Mawile

642 

Medicham

258 

Meditite

258 

Meganium

025 

Meowscarada

039 

Meowstic

577 

Meowth (Cold Climate)

637 

Meowth (Tropical) Meowth

155  474 

Metagross

625 

Metang

624 

Metapod

088 

Mienfoo

269 

Mienshao Mightyena Milcery

269  159  240 

Milotic

673 

Miltank

511 

Mime Jr.

410  / 565 

Mimikyu

327 

Minccino

476 

Minior

620 

Minun

226 

Misdreavus

317 

Mismagius

317 

Monferno

046 

Morelull

358 

Morgrem

144 

Morpeko

223 

Mothim

133 

Mr. Mime (Icy Mountain)

410 

Mr. Mime

565 

Mr. Rime

411 

Mudbray

398 

Mudkip

062 

Mudsdale

398 

Muk (Oil Polluted)

527 

Muk

525 

Munchlax

477 

Munna Murkrow Musharna

566  156  566 

N Nacli Naclstack Natu Nickit Nidoking Nidoqueen Nidoran F Nidoran M Nidorina

588  588  568  158  519  517  516  518  516 

Nidorino Nincada Ninetales (Icy Mountain) Ninetales Ninjask Noctowl Noibat
Noivern
Nosepass Numel Nuzleaf Nymble
O Obstagoon Octillery Oddish Oinkologne Omanyte
Omastar Onix Oranguru Orbeetle Oricorio (Baile) Oricorio(Pa'u) Oricorio (Pom-Pom) Oricorio (Sensu) Orthworm Oshawott Overqwil
P Pachirisu Palafin Palossand Palpitoad Pancham Pangoro Panpour Pansage Pansear Paras Parasect Passimian Patrat Pawmi Pawmo Pawmot Pawniard Pelipper Perrserker Persian (Tropical) Persian Petilil Phanpy

518  134  427  293  134  470  302  302  608  286  338  115 
149  688  342  471  609  609  638  512  087  297  579  223  328  643  066  162 
224  675  321  652  261  261  685  360  287  117  117  270  479  200  200  201  146  702  637  155  474  373  400 
787

Index - Alphabetical

Index - Alphabetical

This is all off right now and doesn't include new Scarlet and Violet expansion Pokťmon

Phantump Pichu Pidgeot Pidgeotto Pidgey Pidove Pignite Pikachu Pikipek Piloswine Pincurchin Pineco Pinsir Piplup Plusle Politoed Poliwag Poliwhirl Poliwrath Polteageist Ponyta (Forest Glade) Ponyta Poochyena Popplio Porygon 2 Porygon Porygon-Z Primarina Primeape Prinplup Probopass Psyduck Pumpkaboo Pupitar Purrloin Purugly Pyroar Pyukumuku
Q Quagsire Quaquaval Quaxly Quaxwell Quilava Quilladin Qwilfish (Dark Waters) Qwilfish
788

318  076  443  442  442  444  048  076  446  414  225  118  139  064  226  655  654  654  655  324  569  289  159  070  448  448  449  071  248  064  608  687  320  586  161  468  284  716 
703  075  074  074  042  032  162  717 

R

Raboot

054 

Rabsca

120 

Raichu (Island)

077 

Raichu

077 

Ralts

556 

Rampardos

602 

Rapidash (Forest Glade)

569 

Rapidash

289 

Raticate (Island) Raticate Rattata (Island) Rattata

164  480  164  480 

Relicanth

718 

Rellor

120 

Remoraid

688 

Reuniclus

555 

Revavroom

640 

Rhydon

378 

Rhyhorn

378 

Rhyperior

379 

Ribombee

105 

Rillaboom

037 

Riolu

263 

Rockruff Roggenrola

614  590 

Rolycoly Rookidee

592  300 

Roselia

334 

Roserade

335 

Rotom

227 

Rowlet

034 

Rufflet

482  / 571 

Runerigus

406 

S Sableye
Salamence Salandit Salazzle Samurott (Legend)
Samurott Sandaconda Sandile Sandshrew (Icy Mountain) Sandshrew Sandslash (Icy Mountain) Sandslash Sandygast Sawk Sawsbuck Scatterbug Sceptile
Scizor

172 
177  531  531 
067 
067  403  380  423  401  423  401  321  271  462  092  027 
136 

Scolipede Scorbunny Scovillain Scrafty Scraggy Scyther Seadra Seaking Sealeo Seedot Seel Seismitoad Sentret Serperior
Servine Seviper Sewaddle Sharpedo Shedinja Shelgon Shellder Shellos Shelmet Shieldon Shiftry Shiinotic Shinx Shroodle Shroomish Shuckle Shuppet Sigilyph Silcoon Silicobra Simipour Simisage Simisear Sinistea Sirfetch'd Sizzlipede Skarmory
Skeledirge Skiddo Skiploom Skitty Skorupi Skrelp Skuntank Skwovet Slaking Slakoth Sliggoo (Iron-rich)
Sliggoo Slowbro (Spice Diet)

097 
054  348  165  165 
136  648  679  412  338  690  653  483  031 
030  546  094  663  135 
176  691  693  121 
611  339  358  202  533  361 
140  323 
580  100  403  685  360  287  324 
255  290  644 
057  363  336  485  534  536  537  486  451  450 
626 
186  544 

This is all off right now and doesn't include new Scarlet and Violet expansion Pokťmon

Slowbro Slowking (Spice Diet) Slowking Slowpoke (Spice Diet) Slowpoke Slugma Slurpuff
Smeargle Smoliv Smoochum Sneasel (Badlands) Sneasel Sneasler
Snivy Snom
Snorlax Snorunt Snover Snubbull
Sobble Solosis Solrock Spearow Spewpa Spheal Spidops Spinarak Spinda
Spiritomb Spoink
Sprigatito Spritzee Squawkabilly
Squirtle
Stantler Staraptor Staravia Starly Starmie Staryu Steelix Steenee
Stonjourner Stoutland Stufful
Stunfisk (Iron-rich)
Stunfisk Stunky
Sudowoodo Sunflora Sunkern Surskit Swablu Swadloon

708  545  709  544  708  292  244 
513  340 
424  264  167  264 
030  426 
477  432  364  241 
072  554  619  488  092  412  126  123  514 
329  572 
038  243  515 
058 
489  453  452  452  694  694  638  332 
621  441  491 
409 
408  537 
600  366  366  124  190  094 

Swalot Swampert Swanna Swellow Swinub Swirlix Swoobat Sylveon
T Tadbulb Taillow Talonflame Tandemaus Tangela Tangrowth Tarountula Tatsugiri Tauros (Aqua Breed) Tauros (Blaze Breed) Tauros (Combative) Tauros Teddiursa Tentacool Tentacruel Tepig Thievul Throh Thwackey Timburr Tinkatink Tinkaton Tinkatuff Tirtouga Toedscool Toedscruel Togedemaru Togekiss Togepi Togetic Torchic Torkoal Torracat Torterra
Totodile Toucannon Toxapex Toxel Toxicroak Toxtricity Tranquill Trapinch Treecko

528  063  672  492  414  244  574  083 
211  492  275  494  367  367  126  193  272  273  273  511  382  696  696  048  158  271  036  250  234  235  234  697  404  404  228  237  236  236  044  298  052  029  060  447  530  212  522  212  444  384  026 

Trevenant Tropius Trubbish Trubbish Trumbeak Tsareena Turtonator Turtwig Tympole Tynamo Typhlosion (Legend) Typhlosion Tyranitar Tyrantrum Tyrogue Tyrunt
U Umbreon Unfezant Unown Ursaluna Ursaring
V Vanillish Vanillite Vanilluxe Vaporeon Varoom Veluza Venipede Venomoth Venonat Venusaur Vespiquen Vibrava Victreebel Vigoroth Vikavolt Vileplume Vivillon Volbeat Volcarona Voltorb (Antique) Voltorb Vullaby Vulpix (Icy Mountain) Vulpix

318  376  533  539  446  333  299  028  652  204  043  043  587  612  266  612 
081  445  581  383  382 
416  416  417  079  640  719  096  127  127  023  103  384  331  450  091  343  093  141  112  215  214  168  427  293 
789

Index - Alphabetical

This is all off right now and doesn't include new Scarlet and Violet expansion Pokťmon

W
Wailmer
Wailord Walrein
Wartortle Watchog Wattrel Weavile Weedle Weepinbell Weezing (Heavy Pollution) Weezing Whimsicott Whirlipede Whiscash Whismur Wigglytuff Wiglett Wimpod Wingull Wishiwashi
Wobbuffet Woobat Wooloo Wooper (High Ground) Wooper Wormadam (Plant Cloak) Wormadam (Sandy Cloak) Wormadam (Trash Cloak) Wugtrio Wurmple
Wynaut
Wyrdeer

699 
699  413 
058  479  217  167  098  330  543  542  351  096  658  454  439  700  129  702  720 
575  574  495  540  703  132  133  133  700  100 
575 
489 

Z Zangoose Zebstrika Zigzagoon (Urban) Zigzagoon Zoroark (Icy Mountain)
Zoroark
Zorua (Icy Mountain)
Zorua Zubat Zweilous

515  206  148  498  500 
170 
500 
170  520  142 

X Xatu

568 

Y Yamask (Stone Ruins) Yamask Yamper Yanma Yanmega Yungoos

406  326  218  130  130  497 

Index - Alphabetical

790

This is all off right now and doesn't include new Scarlet and Violet expansion Pokťmon

Pokťmon by Type In Alphabetical Order
Bug Type Accelgor
Anorith Araquanid Ariados Armaldo Beautifly Beedrill Blipbug Burmy Butterfree Cascoon Caterpie Centiskorch Charjabug Combee Crustle Cutiefly Dewpider Dottler Durant Dustox Dwebble Escavalier Forretress Frosmoth Galvantula Golisopod Grubbin
Heracross Illumise Joltik Kakuna Karrablast
Kleavor Kricketot Kricketune
Larvesta Leavanny Ledian Ledyba Lokix Masquerain Metapod Mothim Nincada Ninjask Nymble Orbeetle Paras Parasect Pineco

121 
596  670  123 
596  101  099  086  132  089  102  088  290  090  103  106  105  670  086  138  102  106  109  118  426  108  129  090 
139  141  108  098  109 
137  111  111 
112  095  114  114  115  124  088  133  134  134  115  087  117  117  118 

Pinsir Rabsca Rellor Ribombee Scatterbug Scizor Scolipede
Scyther Sewaddle Shedinja Shelmet
Shuckle Silcoon Sizzlipede Skorupi Snom Spewpa Spidops Spinarak Surskit Swadloon Tarountula Venipede Venomoth Venonat Vespiquen Vikavolt Vivillon Volbeat
Volcarona Weedle Whirlipede Wimpod Wormadam (Plant Cloak) Wormadam (Sandy Cloak) Wormadam (Trash Cloak) Wurmple Yanma Yanmega
Dark Type
Absol Bisharp Bombirdier Cacturne Carvanha Crawdaunt Drapion
Deino
Greninja Grimer (Oil Polluted) Grimmsnarl Honchkrow Houndoom Houndour

139  120  120  105  092  136  097 
136  094  135  121  140  100  290  534  426  092  126  123  124  094  126  096  127  127  103  091  093  141  112  098  096  129  132  133  133  100  130  130 
171  146  303  346  663  669  534  142 
069  527  145  156  150  150 

Hydreigon Impidimp
Incineroar Inkay Kingambit Krokorok Krookodile Liepard Linoone (Urban) Lokix Mabosstiff Malamar Mandibuzz Maschiff
Meowscarada Meowth (Tropical) Mightyena Morgrem
Morpeko Muk (Oil Polluted) Murkrow Nickit Nuzleaf Obstagoon Overqwil Pangoro Pawniard Persian (Tropical) Poochyena Purrloin Qwilfish (Dark Waters) Raticate (Island) Rattata (Island) Sableye
Samurott (Legend) Sandile Scrafty Scraggy Sharpedo Shiftry Skuntank Sneasel
Spiritomb Stunky Thievul Tyranitar Umbreon Vullaby Weavile Zigzagoon (Urban)
Zoroark
Zorua
Zweilous

143  144  053  152  147  380  381  161  148  115  153  152  168  153  039  155  159  144  223  527  156  158  339  149  162  261  146  155  159  161  162  164  164  172 
067  380  165  165  663  338  537  167  329  537  158  587  081  168  167  148  170 
170 
142 
791

Type Index contributions by LightningWolves

Index - Type

This is all off right now and doesn't include new Scarlet and Violet expansion Pokťmon

Type Index contributions by LightningWolves

Dragon Type Altaria Appletun Applin Arctibax Axew Bagon Baxcalibur Cyclizar Deino Dracovish Dracozolt Dragalge Dragapult Dragonair Dragonite Drakloak Drampa Dratini Dreepy Druddigon Duraludon Exeggutor (Island) Flapple Flygon Fraxure Frigibax Gabite Garchomp Gible Goodra (Iron-rich) Goodra Goomy Hakamo-o Haxorus Hydreigon Jangmo-o Kingdra Kommo-o Noibat Noivern Salamence Shelgon Sliggoo (Iron-rich) Sliggoo Tatsugiri Turtonator Tyrantrum Tyrunt Vibrava

Zweilous 190 

370  Electric Type

369  Ampharos

182  Arctozolt

174  Bellibolt

176  183  192  142  711  220  536  181  178  179  180  506  178 

Blitzle Boltund Charjabug. Chinchou Dedenne
Dracozolt
Eelektrik
Eelektross Electabuzz Electivire Electrike Electrode (Antique) Electrode Elekid

180  Emolga

192  Flaaffy

641  372  369  385  174  182  184  185 

Galvantula Geodude (Iron-rich) Golem (Iron-rich) Graveler (Iron-rich) Heliolisk Helioptile Jolteon Joltik Kilowattrel

184  Lanturn

627  Luxio

187  Luxray

186 / 626  188  175  143 

Magnemite Magneton Magnezone Manectric Mareep

187  Minun

649  Morpeko

189  Oricorio (Pom-Pom)

302  Pachirisu

302  Pawmi

177  176  626  186  193  299  612  612  384 

Pawmo Pawmot Pichu Pikachu
Pincurchin Plusle Raichu (Island) Raichu
Rotom Shinx

142  Stunfisk

Tadbulb

Togedemaru

199  Toxel

220  Toxtricity

211  Tynamo

206  Vikavolt

.

218  090 

Voltorb (Antique)

666 

Voltorb Wattrel

221  Yamper

220  Zebstrika

204 

205  Fairy Type

194  Alcremie

195  Aromatisse

208  Azumarill

215  Azurill

214  Carbink

194  Clefable

221  Clefairy 198  Cleffa

108  Comfey

584  Cottonee

585  Cutiefly

584  Dachsbun

209  Dedenne

209  080  108  217  666  202  203  196  196  197  208  198  226 
223  223 
224  200  200  201  076  076 
225  226  077  077 
227  202 

Fidough

Flabťbť

Floette

Florges

Gardevoir

Granbull

Grimmsnarl

Hatterene

Igglybuff

.

Impidimp

Jigglypuff

Kirlia

Klefki

Marill

Mawile

Milcery

Mime Jr.

Mimikyu

Morelull

Morgrem

Mr. Mime

Ninetales (Icy Mountain)

Primarina

.

Ralts

Rapidash (Forest Glade)

Ribombee

Shiinotic

408  211  228  212  212  204  091  215  214  217  218  206 
240  243  647  646  617  231  230  230  245  351  105  238  221  238  232  232  233  557  241  145  553  438  144  438  556  642  646  642  240  565 / 410  327  358  144  565  427  071  556  569  105  358 

Index - Type

792

This is all off right now and doesn't include new Scarlet and Violet expansion Pokťmon

Slurpuff Snubbull Spritzee Swirlix Sylveon Tinkatink Tinkaton Tinkatuff Togekiss Togepi Togetic Weezing (Heavy Pollution) Whimsicott Wigglytuff
Fighting Type Annihilape Bewear Blaziken Breloom Chesnaught Clobbopus Combusken Conkeldurr Crabominable Crabrawler Croagunk Decidueye (Legend)
Emboar Falinks Farfetch'd (Massive Leek) Flamigo Gallade Grapploct Gurdurr Hakamo-o Hariyama Hawlucha Heracross Hitmonchan Hitmonlee Hitmontop Infernape Kommo-o Lilligant (High Mountain) Lucario Machamp Machoke Machop Makuhita Mankey Medicham Meditite

244  241  243  244  083  234  235  234  237  236  236  543  351  439 
249  491  045  361  033  252  044  251  254  254  522  035  049  268  255  305  557  252  250  188  257  269  139  266  267  267  047  189  374  263  247  246  246  257  248  258  258 

Mienfoo Mienshao Monferno Pancham Pangoro Passimian Pawmo Pawmot Pignite Poliwrath Primeape Riolu Sawk Scrafty Scraggy Sirfetch'd Sneasel (Badlands) Sneasler Stufful Quaquaval Tauros (Aqua Breed) Tauros (Blaze Breed) Tauros (Combative) Timburr Throh Toxicroak Tyrogue
Fire Type Arcanine (Ancient) Arcanine Armarouge Blaziken Braixen Camerupt Carkol Centiskorch Ceruledge Chandelure Charcadet Charizard Charmander Charmeleon Chimchar Cinderace Coalossal Combusken Crocalor Cyndaquil Darmanitan Darumaka Delphox Emboar

260  260  046  261  261  270  200  201  048  655  248  263  271  165  165  255  264  264  491  075  272  273  273  250  271  522  266 
283  281  295  045  050  286  592  290  296  311  295  041  040  040  046  055  593  044  056  042  280  280  051  049 

Fennekin Flareon Fletchinder Fuecoco Growlithe (Ancient) Growlithe Heatmor Houndoom Houndour Incineroar Infernape Lampent Larvesta Litleo Litten Litwick Magby Magcargo Magmar Magmortar Marowak (Volcanic) Monferno Ninetales Numel Oricorio (Baile) Pansear Pignite Ponyta Pyroar Quilava
Raboot Rapidash Salandit Salazzle Scorbunny Scovillain Simisear Sizzlipede Skeledirge Slugma Volcarona Vulpix Talonflame Tauros (Blaze Breed) Tepig Torchic Torkoal Torracat Turtonator Typhlosion (Legend) Typhlosion

050  080  274  056  283  281  297  150  150  053  047  310  112  284  052  310  276  292  276  277  278  046  293  286  297  287  048  289  284  042  054  289  531  531  054  348  287  290  057  292  112  293  275  273  048  044  298  052  299  043  043 
793

Type Index contributions by LightningWolves

Index - Type

Index - Type

Type Index contributions by LightningWolves

This is all off right now and doesn't include new Scarlet and Violet expansion Pokťmon

Flying Type
Aerodactyl Altaria
Archen
Archeops Beautifly Bombirdier Braviary (Tundra) Braviary Butterfree
Charizard Chatot Combee Corviknight Corvisquire Cramorant Crobat
Dartrix
Delibird Dodrio Doduo
Dragonite Drifblim Drifloon Ducklett
Emolga
Farfetch'd Fearow Flamigo Fletchinder Fletchling Gligar Gliscor Golbat Gyarados Hawlucha Honchkrow Hoothoot Hoppip Jumpluff Kilowattrel Ledian Ledyba Mandibuzz
Mantine
Mantyke Masquerain
Minior Mothim Murkrow Natu Ninjask Noctowl
Noibat

616  190 
597 
597  101  303  571  482  089 
041  504  103  301  300  304  521 
034 
435  464  464 
179  314  314  672 
221 
507  488  305  274  274  394  394  520  682  269  156  470  336  337  217  114  114  168 
684 
684  124 
620  133  156  568  134  470 
302 

Noivern Oricorio (Baile) Oricorio (Pa'u) Oricorio (Pom-Pom) Oricorio (Sensu) Pelipper Pidgeot Pidgeotto Pidgey Pidove Pikipek Rookidee Rowlet Rufflet
Salamence
Scyther
Sigilyph Skarmory Skiploom Spearow Squawkabilly Staraptor Staravia Starly Swablu Swanna Swellow Swoobat Taillow Talonflame Togekiss
Togetic Toucannon Tranquill Tropius Trumbeak Unfezant Vespiquen Vivillon Vullaby Wattrel Wingull Woobat Xatu Yanma Yanmega Zubat
Ghost Type Aegislash Annihilape Banette Basculegion Brambleghast Bramblin

302  297  579  223  328  702  443  442  442  444  446  300  034  482/571  177 
136 
580  644  336  488  515  453  452  452  190  672  492  574  492  275  237 
236  447  444  376  446  445  103  093  168  217  702  574  568  130  130  520 
629  249  323  660  345  345 

Ceruledge Chandelure Cofagrigus Corsola (Dead Seas) Cursola Decidueye
Dhelmise
Dragapult
Drakloak
Dreepy Drifblim Drifloon Doublade Dusclops Dusknoir Duskull Frillish Froslass Gastly Gengar Gholdengo
Gimmighoul
Golett
Golurk Gourgeist Greavard Haunter Honedge Houndstone Jellicent Lampent Litwick Marowak (Volcanic) Mimikyu Misdreavus Mismagius Oricorio (Sensu) Palossand Phantump Polteageist Pumpkaboo Rotom Runerigus Sableye Sandygast Shedinja Shuppet Sinistea Skeledirge
Spiritomb Trevenant Typhlosion (Legend) Yamask (Stone Ruins)

794

296  311  326  312  312  035 
327 
181 
180 
180  314  314  628  306  307  306  678  433  308  309  635 
635 
395 
395  320  315  308  628  315  678  310  310  278  327  317  317  328  321  318  324  320  227  406  172  321  135  323  324  057 
329  318  043  406 

This is all off right now and doesn't include new Scarlet and Violet expansion Pokťmon

Type Index contributions by LightningWolves

Yamask Zoroark (Icy Mountain) Zorua (Icy Mountain)
Grass Type Abomasnow Amoonguss Appletun Applin Arboliva Bayleef Bellossom Bellsprout Bounsweet Brambleghast Bramblin Breloom Budew Bulbasaur Cacnea Cacturne Capsakid Carnivine Cherrim Cherubi Chesnaught Chespin
Chikorita Cottonee Cradily Dartrix Decidueye (Legend) Decidueye Deerling Dhelmise Dolliv Eldegoss Electrode (Antique) Exeggcute Exeggutor (Island) Exeggutor Ferroseed Ferrothorn Flapple Floragato Fomantis Foongus Gloom Gogoat Gossifleur Gourgeist Grookey Grotle

326  500  500 
364  355  370  369  341  024  343  330  332  345  345  361  334  022  346  346  348  375  349  349  033  032  024  351  606  034  035  035  462  327  340  357  215  371  372  371  352  352  369  038  354  355  342  363  357  320  036  028 

Grovyle Hoppip Ivysaur Jumpluff Leafeon Leavanny
Lileep Lilligant (High Mountain) Lilligant Lombre Lotad Ludicolo Lurantis Maractus
Meganium
Meowscarada Morelull Nuzleaf Oddish Pansage Paras Parasect Petilil Phantump Pumpkaboo
Quilladin
Rillaboom Roselia Roserade
Rowlet Sawsbuck
Sceptile Scovillain Seedot
Serperior
Servine Sewaddle Shiftry Shiinotic Shroomish Simisage Skiddo Skiploom Smoliv Snivy Snover
Sprigatito Steenee Sunflora Sunkern Swadloon
Tangela
Tangrowth

026  Thwackey

336  Toedscool

022  Toedscruel

337  Torterra

082  Treecko 095  Trevenant
606  Tropius 374  Tsareena 373  Turtwig 650  Venusaur 650  Victreebel 651  Vileplume 354  Voltorb (Antique) 376  Weepinbell 025  Whimsicott
039  Wormadam (Plant Cloak)

358  339  Ground Type 342  Baltoy

360  Barboach

117  Camerupt

117  Claydol

373  Clodsire

318  Cubone

320  Diggersby

032 
037  334  335  034  462  027  348  338  031 
030  094  338  358  361  360  363 

Diglett (Volcanic) Diglett Donphan Drilbur Dugtrio (Volcanic) Dugtrio Excadrill Flygon
Gabite
Garchomp Gastrodon Geodude Gible Gligar Gliscor Golett
Golurk

336  Golem

340  Graveler

030  364 
038  332  366 

Hippopotas Hippowdon Krokorok Krookodile Larvitar

366  Mamoswine

094  Marowak

367  Marshtomp

367  Mudbray

Mudsdale

036  404  404  029  026  318  376  333  028  023  331  343  215  330  351  132 
386  658  286  386  540  388/278  461  391  389  400  392  391  389  392  385  184  185  693  582  184  394  394  395  395  583  582  397  397  380  381  586  415  388  062  398  398 
795

Index - Type

Index - Type

Type Index contributions by LightningWolves

This is all off right now and doesn't include new Scarlet and Violet expansion Pokťmon

Nidoking Nidoqueen Nincada Numel Onix Palossand Palpitoad Phanpy Piloswine Pupitar Quagsire Rhydon Rhyhorn Rhyperior Runerigus Sandaconda Sandile Sandshrew Sandslash Sandygast Seismitoad Silicobra Steelix Stunfisk (Iron-rich) Stunfisk Swampert Swinub Toedscool Toedscruel Torterra Trapinch Ursaluna Vibrava Whiscash Wooper (High Ground) Wooper Wormadam (Sandy Cloak) Yamask (Stone Ruins)
Ice Type Abomasnow Amaura Arctibax Arctovish Arctozolt Aurorus Avalugg (Mountainous) Avalugg Baxcalibur Beartic Bergmite Cetitan Cetoddle
796

519  517  134  286  638  321  652  400  414  586  703  378  378  379  406  403  380  401  401  321  653  403  638  409  408  063  414  404  404  028  384  383  384  658  540  703  133  406 
364  594  182  711  220  594  431  430  183  420  430  418  418 

Cloyster Crabominable Cryogonal Cubchoo Darmanitan (Icy Mountain) Darumaka (Icy Mountain) Delibird Dewgong Eiscue Frigibax Froslass Frosmoth Glaceon Glalie Jynx
Lapras Mamoswine Mr. Mime (Icy Mountain)
Mr. Rime Ninetales (Icy Mountain) Piloswine Sandshrew (Icy Mountain) Sandslash (Icy Mountain) Sealeo Smoochum Sneasel Snom Snorunt Snover Spheal Swinub Walrein Weavile Vanillish Vanillite Vanilluxe Vulpix (Icy Mountain)
Normal Type Aipom Ambipom Arboliva Audino Azurill Bewear Bibarel Bidoof Blissey
Bouffalant Braviary Buneary Bunnelby Castform
Chansey

691  254  434  420  421  421  435  690  435  182  433  426  082  432  424  715  415  410  411  427  414  423  423  412  424  167  426  432  364  412  414  413  167  416  416  417  427 
456  456  341  502  646  491  458  458  437  503  482  459  461  503  436 

Chatot
Cinccino Cyclizar Deerling Delcatty Diggersby Ditto
Drampa Dodrio Doduo Dolliv Dubwool
Dudunsparce
Dunsparce Eevee Exploud Farfetch'd Farigiraf Fearow Fletchling Furfrou Furret Girafarig Glameow Grafaiai Greedent Gumshoos
Happiny Heliolisk Helioptile Herdier Hoothoot Indeedee Igglybuff Jigglypuff
Kangaskhan
Kecleon Komala
Lickilicky
Lickitung Lillipup Linoone (Urban) Linoone Litleo Lopunny Loudred Lechonk Maushold Meowth Miltank
Minccino
Munchlax Noctowl Obstagoon

504 
476  192  462  485  461 
505 
506  464  464  340  495 
465 
465  079  455 
507  467  488  274  507  483  467  468  533  486  497 
436  209  209  440  470  578  438  438 
508 
509  510 
473 
473  440  148  498  284  459  454  471  494  474  511 
476 
477  470  149 

This is all off right now and doesn't include new Scarlet and Violet expansion Pokťmon

Oinkologne
Oranguru Patrat Persian Pidgeot Pidgeotto Pidgey Pidove Pikipek
Porygon 2
Porygon
Porygon-Z Purugly Pyroar Raticate (Island) Raticate Rattata (Island) Rattata Rufflet Sawsbuck Sentret Shroodle Skitty Skwovet Slaking Slakoth
Smeargle Smoliv
Snorlax Spearow Spinda Squawkabilly
Stantler Staraptor Staravia Starly Stoutland Stufful Swablu Swellow Taillow Tandemaus Tauros Teddiursa Toucannon Tranquill Trumbeak Unfezant Ursaluna Ursaring Vigoroth Watchog Whismur Wigglytuff Wooloo
Wyrdeer

471  Yungoos

512  Zangoose

479  Zigzagoon (Urban) 474  Zigzagoon

443  Zoroark (Icy Mountain)

442  Zorua (Icy Mountain) 442 

444  Poison Type 446  Amoonguss

448  Arbok

448  Ariados

449  468  284  164 

Beedrill Bellsprout Budew
Bulbasaur

480  Clodsire

164  Croagunk

480  Crobat

482/571  Dragalge

462  Drapion

483  Dustox

533  Ekans

485  Foongus

486  Garbodor

451  Gastly

450  Gengar

513  Glimmet

340  Glimmora 477  Gloom

488  Golbat

514  Grafaiai

515  Grimer (Oil Polluted)

489  Grimer

453  Gulpin

452  Haunter

452  441  491  190  492  492  494  511  382  447  444  446  445  383  382  450  479  454  439  495 
489 

Ivysaur Kakuna Koffing Mareanie Muk (Oil Polluted) Muk Nidoking Nidoqueen Nidoran F Nidoran M Nidorina Nidorino Oddish Overqwil Qwilfish (Dark Waters) Qwilfish Roselia Roserade Revavroom Salandit

497  515  148  498  500 
500 
355  524  123  099  330  334  022  540  522  521  536  534  102  524  355  539  308  309  605 
605  342  520  533  527  525  528  308  022  098  542  530  527  525  519  517  516  518  516  516  342  162  162  717  334  335  640  531 

Salazzle Scolipede Seviper Shroodle Skrelp Skorupi Skuntank Slowbro (Spice Diet) Slowking (Spice Diet) Sneasel (Badlands) Sneasler Spinarak Stunky Swalot Tentacool Tentacruel Toxapex Toxel Toxicroak Toxtricity Trubbish Varoom Venipede Venomoth Venonat
Venusaur Victreebel Vileplume Weedle Weezing (Heavy Pollution) Weezing Weepinbell Whirlipede Wooper (High Ground) Zubat
Psychic Type Abra Alakazam Armarouge Baltoy Beheeyem
Beldum Braviary (Tundra) Bronzong Bronzor Bruxish
Chimecho
Chingling Claydol
Delphox Drowzee Dottler Duosion Elgyem

531  097  546  533  536  534  537  544  545  264  264  123  537  528  696  696  530  212  522  212  539  640  096  127  127  023  331  343  098  543  542  330  096  540  520 
548  549  295  386  562 624  571  632  632  712  559 
559  386  051  560  086  554  562 
797

Type Index contributions by LightningWolves

Index - Type

Index - Type

Type Index contributions by LightningWolves

This is all off right now and doesn't include new Scarlet and Violet expansion Pokťmon

Espathra Espeon Espurr Exeggcute Exeggutor Farigiraf Flittle Gallade Gardevoir Girafarig Gothita Gothitelle Gothorita Grumpig Hatenna Hatterene Hattrem Hypno Indeedee Inkay
Jynx Kadabra Kirlia Lunatone Malamar Medicham Meditite Meowstic
Metagross
Metang
Mime Jr.
Mr. Mime (Icy Mountain)
Mr. Mime
Mr. Rime Munna Musharna Natu
Oranguru Orbeetle Oricorio (Pa'u) Ponyta (Forest Glade) Rabsca Raichu (Island) Ralts Rapidash (Forest Glade) Reuniclus
Sigilyph Slowbro (Spice Diet) Slowbro Slowking (Spice Diet) Slowking Slowpoke (Spice Diet) Slowpoke

563  081  577  371  371  467  563  557  557  467  550  551  550  572  552  553  552  560  578  152 
424  548  556  619  152  258  258  577 
625 
624 
565 /410 
410 
565 
411  566  566  568 
512  087  579  569  120  077  556  569  555 
580  544  708  545  709  544  708 

Smoochum Solosis Solrock Spoink Starmie Swoobat Unown Veluza Wobbuffet Woobat Wynaut Wyrdeer Xatu
Rock Type Aerodactyl Aggron Amaura Anorith Arcanine (Ancient) Archen Archeops Armaldo Aron Aurorus Avalugg (Mountainous) Barbaracle Bastiodon Binacle Boldore Bonsly Carbink Carkol Carracosta Coalossal Corsola Cradily Cranidos Crustle Drednaw Dwebble Garganacl Geodude (Iron-rich) Geodude Gigalith Glimmet Glimmora Golem (Iron-rich) Golem Graveler (Iron-rich) Graveler Growlithe (Ancient) Kabuto

424  554  619  572  694  574  581  719  575  574  575  489  568 
616  623  594  596  283  597  597  596  622  594  431  599  611  599  590  600  617  592  697  593  713  606  602  106  664  106  589  584  582  591  605  605  585  583  584  582  283  603 

Kabutops Klawf Kleavor Lairon Larvitar Lileep Lunatone Lycanroc (Day) Lycanroc (Dusk) Lycanroc (Night) Magcargo Minior Nacli Naclstack Nosepass Omanyte Omastar Onix Probopass Pupitar Rampardos Relicanth Rockruff Roggenrola Rolycoly Rhydon Rhyhorn Rhyperior Shieldon Shuckle Solrock Stonjourner Sudowoodo Tirtouga Tyranitar Tyrantrum Tyrunt
Steel Type Aegislash Aggron Aron Bastiodon Beldum Bisharp Bronzong Bronzor Copperajah Corviknight Cufant Diglett (Volcanic) Doublade

798

603  617  137  622  586  606  619  614  615  615  292  620  588  588  608  609  609  638  608  586  602  718  614  590  592  378  378  379  611  140  619  621  600  697  587  612  612 
629  623  622  611  624  146  632  632  634  301  634  391  628 

This is all off right now and doesn't include new Scarlet and Violet expansion Pokťmon

Dugtrio (Volcanic) Duraludon Durant Empoleon Escavalier Excadrill Ferroseed Ferrothorn Forretress Gholdengo Goodra (Iron-rich) Honedge Kingambit Klang Klefki Klink Klinklang Lairon Lucario Mawile Magnemite Magneton Magnezone Metagross Metang Meowth (Cold Climate) Orthworm Pawniard Perrserker Probopass Revavroom Sandshrew (Icy Mountain) Sandslash (Icy Mountain) Scizor Shieldon Skarmory Sliggoo (Iron-rich) Steelix Stunfisk (Iron-rich) Tinkatink Tinkaton Tinkatuff Togedemaru Varoom Wormadam (Trash Cloak)
Water Type Alomomola Araquanid Arctovish Arrokuda Azumarill Barbaracle

391  641  138  065  109  392  352  352  118  635  627  628  147  630  642  630  631  622  263  642  196  196  197  625  624  637  643  146  637  608  640  423  423  136  611  644  626  638  409  234  235  234  228  640  133 
710  670  711  657  647  599 

Barboach Barraskewda Basculegion Basculin Bibarel Binacle Blastoise
Brionne Bruxish Buizel Carracosta Carvanha Chewtle Chinchou Clamperl Clauncher Clawitzer Cloyster Corphish Corsola Cramorant Crawdaunt Croconaw Dewgong Dewott Dewpider Dondozo
Dracovish Drednaw Drizzile Ducklett Empoleon
Feebas
Feraligatr Finizen Finneon Floatzel Frillish Froakie
Frogadier Gastrodon Goldeen Golduck Golisopod Gorebyss Greninja Gyarados Horsea Huntail Inteleon Jellicent Kabuto
Kabutops

658  657  660  660  458  599  059 
070  712  661  697  663  664  666  706  667  667  691  669  713  304  669  060  690  066  670  714 
711  664  072  672  065 
673 
061  675  676  661  678  068 
068  693  679  687  129  707  069  682  648  706  073  678  603 
603 

Kingdra Kingler Krabby Lanturn Lapras Lombre Lotad Ludicolo Lumineon Luvdisc Magikarp Mantine
Mantyke Mareanie Marill Marshtomp
Milotic
Mudkip Octillery Omanyte
Omastar
Oshawott Palafin Palpitoad Panpour Pelipper Piplup Politoed Poliwag Poliwhirl Poliwrath Popplio
Primarina
Prinplup Psyduck Pyukumuku Quagsire Quaquaval
Quaxly
Quaxwell Qwilfish Relicanth Remoraid Samurott (Legend)
Samurott Seadra Seaking Sealeo Seel Seismitoad Sharpedo Shellder Shellos

649  681  681  666  715  650  650  651  676  716  682  684  684  530  646  062  673  062  688  609  609  066  675  652  685  702  064  655  654  654  655  070  071  064  687  716  703  075  074  074  717  718  688  067  067  648  679  412  690  653  663  691  693 
799

Type Index contributions by LightningWolves

Index - Type

Type Index contributions by LightningWolves

This is all off right now and doesn't include new Scarlet and Violet expansion Pokťmon

Simipour Skrelp Slowbro Slowking Slowpoke Sobble Spheal Squirtle Starmie Staryu Surskit Swampert Swanna Tatsugiri
Tauros (Aqua Breed) Tentacool Tentacruel Tirtouga
Totodile Toxapex Tympole Vaporeon Veluza Wailmer
Wailord Walrein Wartortle Whiscash Wiglett Wimpod Wingull Wishiwashi Wooper Wugtrio

685  536  708  709  708 
072  412 
058  694  694  124  063  672  193 
273  696  696 
697 
060  530  652  079  719 
699 
699  413 
058  658  700  129  702  720  703  700 

Index - Type

800

This is all off right now and doesn't include new Scarlet and Violet expansion Pokťmon

Pokťmon by Egg Group

Amorphous
Alcremie Banette Castform Chandelure
Chimecho
Chingling Cofagrigus Dragapult
Drakloak
Dreepy Drifblim Drifloon Duosion Dusclops Dusknoir Duskull Eelektrik
Eelektross Frillish Gallade Gardevoir Gastly Gastrodon Gengar Gourgeist Grimer (Oil Polluted) Grimer Gulpin Haunter Jellicent Kirlia Koffing Lampent Litwick Magcargo Milcery Mimikyu Misdreavus Mismagius Muk (Oil Polluted) Muk Palossand Phantump Pincurchin Polteageist Pumpkaboo Ralts Reuniclus Rotom Runerigus

240  323 
503  311 
559 
559  326 
181 
180 
180  314  314  554  306  307  306 
204 
205  678  557  557  308  693  309  320  527  525  528  308  678  556  542  310  310  292  240  327  317  317  527  525  321  318 
225  324  320  556  555 
227  406 

Sandygast Shellos Shuppet Sigilyph Sinistea Slugma Solosis Spiritomb
Stunfisk (Iron-Rich)
Stunfisk Swalot Tentacool Tentacruel Trevenant Tynamo
Unown Weezing (Heavy Pollution) Weezing Wobbuffet
Wynaut Yamask (Stone Ruins) Yamask
Bug
Accelgor Anorith Araquanid Ariados Armaldo Beautifly Beedrill Blipbug Burmy Butterfree Cascoon Caterpie Centiskorch Charjabug Combee Crabominable Crabrawler Crustle Cutiefly Dewpider Dottler Drapion Durant Dustox Dwebble Escavalier Flygon Fomantis Forretress Frosmoth

321  693  323  580  324  292  554  329  409  408  528  696  696  318  204  581  543  542  575  575  406  326 
121  596  670  123  596  101  099  086  132  089  102  088  290  090  103  254  254  106  105  670  086  534  138  102  106  109  385  354  118  426 

Galvantula Gligar Gliscor Golisopod Grubbin
Heracross Illumise Joltik Kakuna Karrablast Kingler
Kleavor Krabby Kricketot Kricketune
Larvesta Leavanny Ledian Ledyba Lokix Lurantis Masquerain Metapod Mothim Nincada Ninjask Nymble Orbeetle Paras Parasect Pineco
Pinsir Rabsca Rellor Ribombee Scatterbug
Scizor Scolipede
Scyther Sewaddle Shedinja Shelmet
Shuckle Silcoon Sizzlipede Skorupi Snom Spewpa Spidops Spinarak Surskit Swadloon Tarountula
Trapinch Venipede

108  394  394  129  090  139  141  108  098  109  681 
137  681  111  111  112  095  114  114  105  354  124  088  133  134  134  105  087  117  117  118 
139  120  120  105  092  136  097 
136  094  135  121 
140  102  290  534  426  092  126  123  124  094  126 384  096 
801

Egg Group Index by Dungeon Marsh-ter

Index - Egg Group

Index - Egg Group

Egg Group Index by Dungeon Marsh-ter

This is all off right now and doesn't include new Scarlet and Violet expansion Pokťmon

Venomoth Venonat Vespiquen Vibrava Vikavolt Vivillon Volbeat Volcarona Weedle Whirlipede Wimpod Wormadam (Plant Cloak) Wormadam (Sandy Cloak) Wormadam (Trash Cloak) Wurmple Yanma Yanmega
Dragon
Aerodactyl Aggron Altaria Amaura Appletun Applin Arbok Arctibax Aron Aurorus Axew Bagon Bastiodon Baxcalibur Charizard Charmander Charmeleon Cranidos Cyclizar Deino Dragalge Drampa Dragonair Dragonite Dratini Dragapult Drakloak Dreepy Druddigon Duraludon Ekans Feebas Flapple

127  127  103  384  091  093  141  112  098  096  129  132  133  133  100  130  130 
616  623  190  594  370  369  524  182  622  594  174  176  611  183 041  040  040  602  192  142  536  506  178  179  178  181  180  180  192  641  524  673  369 

Flygon Fraxure Frigibax Gabite Garchomp Gible Goodra (Iron-Rich) Goodra Goomy Grovyle Gyarados Hakamo-o Haxorus Heliolisk Helioptile Horsea Hydreigon Jangmo-o Kingdra Kommo-o Lairon Larvitar Magikarp Milotic Noibat Noivern Onix Pupitar Rampardos Salamence Salandit Salazzle Sandaconda Sceptile Scrafty Scraggy Seadra Seviper Shelgon Shieldon Silicobra Skrelp Sliggoo (Iron-Rich) Sliggoo Steelix Swablu Trapinch Treecko Turtonator Tyranitar Tyrantrum

385  174  182  184  185  184  627  187  186/626  026  682  188  175  209  209  648  143  188  649  189  622  586  682  673  302  302  638  586  602  177  531  531  403  027  165  165  648  546  176  611  403  536  626  186  638  190  384  026  299  587  612 

Tyrunt
Vibrava
Zweilous
Fairy
Alcremie Arboliva Aromatisse Audino Azumarill Azurill Blissey Bounsweet Breloom Budew Carbink
Castform
Chansey Cherrim Cherubi Cinccino Clefable Clefairy Cleffa Comfey Cottonee Cutiefly Dedenne Delcatty Dolliv Eevee Eldegoss Emolga Espeon Falinks Flabťbť Flareon Floette Florges Froslass Glaceon Glalie Gossifleur Granbull Grimmsnarl Happiny Hatenna Hatterene Hattrem Hoppip Igglybuff Impidimp Indeedee

802

612  384  142 
240  341  243  502  647  646  437  332  361  334  617  503  436  349  349  476  231  230  230  245  351  105  221  485  340  079  357  221  081  268  232  080  232  233  433  082  432  357  241  145  436  552  553  552  336  438  144  578 

This is all off right now and doesn't include new Scarlet and Violet expansion Pokťmon

Jigglypuff Jolteon Jumpluff
Klefki Leafeon Lilligant (High Mountain) Lilligant Marill Maushold Mawile Milcery
Mimikyu
Minccino Minun Morgrem
Morpeko Oricorio (Baile) Oricorio (Pa`u) Oricorio (Pom-Pom) Oricorio (Sensu)
Pachirisu Pawmi Pawmo Pawmot Petilil Pichu Pikachu Plusle Raichu (Island) Raichu Ribombee Roselia Roserade Shroomish Skiploom Skitty Slurpuff Smoliv Snorunt Snubbull Spritzee Steenee Sunflora Sunkern Swirlix Sylveon Tandemaus Tinkaton Tinkatink Tinkatuff
Togedemaru
Togekiss
Togepi
Togetic

438  080  337 
642  082  374  373  646  494  642  240 
327 
476  226  144 
223  297  579  223  328 
224  200  200  201  373  076  076  226  077  077  105  334  335  361  336  485  244  340  432  241  243  332  366  366  244  083  494  235  234  234 
228 
237 
236 
236 

Tsareena Umbreon Vaporeon Whimsicott Wigglytuff
Field
Absol Aipom Ambipom Ampharos Annihilape Arbok Arcanine (Ancient) Arcanine Beartic Bewear Bibarel Bidoof Blaziken Blitzle Boltund Bouffalant Braixen Brionne Buizel Buneary Bunnelby Camerupt Cetitan Cetoddle Chesnaught Chespin Chimchar Cinccino Cinderace Clefable Clefairy Cleffa Clodsire Combusken Copperajah Crobat Crocalor Cubchoo Cubone Cufant Cyclizar Cyndaquil Dachsbun Darmanitan (Icy Mountain) Darmanitan Darumaka (Icy Mountain)

333  081  079  351  439 
171  456  456  199  249  524  283  281  420  491  458  458  045  206  218  503  050  070  661  459  461  286  418  418  033  032  046  476  055  231  230  230  540  044  634  521  056  420  278/388  634  192  042  238  421  280  421 

Darumaka Dedenne Deerling Delcatty
Delibird
Delphox Dewgong Dewott Diggersby Diglett (Volcanic) Diglett Donphan Drilbur Drizzile Dubwool Dudunsparce Dugtrio (Volcanic) Dugtrio Dunsparce Eevee Eiscue Ekans Electrike Emboar
Emolga
Empoleon Espeon Espurr Excadrill Exploud Farfetch'd (Massive Leak)
Farfetch'd Farigiraf Fennekin Fidough Finizen Flaaffy Flareon Floatzel
Floragato
Fuecoco Furfrou Furret Girafarig Glaceon Glameow Gligar Gliscor Gogoat Golbat Golduck Grafaiai Granbull

280  221  462  485  435  051  690  066  461  391  389  400  392  072  495  465  391  389  465  079  435  524  208  049  221  065  081  577  392  455  255  507  467  050  238  675  198  080  661  038 
056  507  483  467  082  468  394  394  363  520  687  533  241 
803

Egg Group Index by Dungeon Marsh-ter

Index - Egg Group

Index - Egg Group

Egg Group Index by Dungeon Marsh-ter

This is all off right now and doesn't include new Scarlet and Violet expansion Pokťmon

Greavard Greedent Grookey
Growlithe (Ancient) Growlithe Grumpig Gumshoos Heatmor Herdier Hippopotas Hippowdon Houndoom Houndour Houndstone Incineroar Indeedee Infernape
Inteleon Jolteon Kecleon Komala Krokorok Krookodile Leafeon Lechonk Liepard Lillipup Linoone Linoone Litleo Litten Lopunny Loudred Lucario Luxio Luxray Lycanroc (Day) Lycanroc (Dusk) Lycanroc (Night) Mabosstiff Mamoswine Manectric Mankey Mareep Marowak (Volcanic) Marowak Maschiff Maushold Mawile Meowscarada Meowstic Meowth (Cold Climate) Meowth (Tropical Climate) Meowth
804

315  486 
036 
283  281  572  497  297  440  397  397  150  150  315 
053  578 
047 
073  080 
509  510  380  381  082  471  161  440  148  498  284 
052  459  454 
263  202  203  614  615  615  153  415  208  248  198  278  388  153  494  642 
039  577  637  155  474 

Mienfoo Mienshao Mightyena
Minccino Minun Miltank
Monferno
Morpeko Mudbray Mudsdale
Munchlax Munna Musharna Nickit Nidoking Nidoqueen Nidoran F Nidoran M Nidorina Nidorino Ninetales (Icy Mountain) Ninetales Numel Nuzleaf Obstagoon Oinkologne
Oranguru Orthworm
Oshawott
Pachirisu Palafin Palpitoad Pancham Pangoro Panpour Pansage Pansear Passimian Patrat Pawmi Pawmo Pawmot Perrserker Persian (Tropical Climate) Persian Phanpy Pichu
Pignite Pikachu Piloswine
Piplup Plusle Politoed Poliwag

260  260  159 
476  226  511 
046 
223  398  398 
477  566  566  158  519  517  516  518  516  518  427  293  286  338  149  471 
512  643 
066 
224  675  652  261  261  685  360  287  270  479  200  200  201  637  155  474  400  076 
048  076  414 
064  226  655  654 

Poliwhirl Poliwrath Ponyta (Forest Glade) Ponyta Poochyena Popplio
Primarina Primeape Prinplup Psyduck Purrloin Purugly Pyroar Quagsire
Quilava
Quilladin
Raboot Raichu (Island) Raichu Rapidash (Forest Glade) Rapidash Raticate (Island) Raticate Rattata (Island) Rattata Rhydon Rhyhorn Rhyperior
Rillaboom
Riolu Rockruff Samurott (Legends)
Samurott Sandaconda Sandile Sandshrew (Icy Mountain) Sandshrew Sandslash (Icy Mountain) Sandslash Sawsbuck
Scorbunny Scrafty Scraggy Sealeo Seedot Seel Seismitoad Sentret Serperior
Servine Seviper Shiftry Shinx Shroodle

654  655  569  289  159  070 
071  248 
064  687  161  468  284  703 
042 
032 
054  077  077  569  289  164  480  164  480  378  378  379 
037 
263  614 
067 
067  403  380  423  401  423  401  462 
054  165  165  412  338  690  653  483  031 
030  546  339  202  533 

This is all off right now and doesn't include new Scarlet and Violet expansion Pokťmon

Silicobra Simipour Simisage Simisear Sirfetch'd
Skeledirge Skiddo Skitty Skwovet Slaking Slakoth Slurpuff Smeargle Sneasel (Badlands) Sneasel Sneasler Snivy
Snorlax Snubbull Sobble Spheal Spinda Spoink Sprigatito
Stantler Stoutland Stufful Stunky Skuntank Swinub Swirlix Swoobat Sylveon Tandemaus Tauros (Aqua Breed)
Tauros (Blaze Breed) Tauros (Combative) Tauros Teddiursa Tepig Thievul Thwackey
Togedemaru
Torchic Torkoal Torracat Tympole Typhlosion (Legends)
Typhlosion Umbreon Ursaluna Ursaring Vaporeon

403  685  360  287  255 
057  363  485  486  451  450  244  513  264  167  264  030 
477  241  072  412  514  572  038 
489  441  491  537  537  414  244  574  083  494  272 
273  273  511  382  048  158  036 
228 
044  298  052  652  043 
043  081  383  382  079 

Vigoroth Vulpix (Icy Mountain) Vulpix Wailmer
Wailord Walrein Watchog Weavile Whismur Woobat Wooloo Wooper (High Ground) Wooper Wyrdeer Yamper Yungoos Zangoose Zebstrika Zigzagoon (Urban) Zigzagoon Zoroark (Icy Mountain) Zoroark Zorua (Icy Mountain) Zorua Zubat
Flying
Aerodactyl Altaria Archen Archeops Aromatisse Blaziken Bombirdier Braviary (Tundra) Braviary Chatot Combusken Corviknight Corvisquire Cramorant Crobat Dartrix Decidueye (Legends) Decidueye Dodrio Doduo Ducklett Espathra Farfetch'd (Massive Leek) Farfetch'd Fearow Flamigo

450  427  293  699  699  413  479  167  454  574  495  540  703  489  218  497  515  206  148  498  500  170  500  170  520 
616  190  597  597  243  045  303  571  482  504  044  301  300  304  521  034  035  034  464  464  672  563  255  507  488  305

Fletchinder Fletchling Flittle Golbat Hawlucha Honchkrow Hoothoot Kilowattrel Mandibuzz Murkrow Natu Noctowl
Noibat
Noivern Oricorio (Baile) Oricorio (Pa`u) Oricorio (Pom-Pom) Oricorio (Sensu) Pelipper Pidgeot Pidgeotto Pidgey Pidove Pikipek
Quaquaval
Quaxly
Quaxwell Rookidee
Rowlet Rufflet
Sigilyph
Sirfetch'd Skarmory Spearow Spritzee Squawkabilly Staraptor Staravia Starly Swablu Swanna Swellow Swoobat Taillow Talonflame
Togekiss
Togepi
Togetic
Torchic Toucannon Tranquill Trumbeak Unfezant Vullaby Wattrel

274  274  563  520  269  156  470  217  168  156  568  470  302 
302  297  579  223  328  702  443  442  442  444  446 
075 
074 
074  300  034  482/571 
580 
255  644  488  243  515  453  452  452  190  672  492  574  492  275 
237 
236 
236 
044  447  444  446  445  168  217 
805

Egg Group Index by Dungeon Marsh-ter

Index - Egg Group

Index - Egg Group

Egg Group Index by Dungeon Marsh-ter

This is all off right now and doesn't include new Scarlet and Violet expansion Pokťmon

Wingull Woobat Xatu Zubat
Grass
Abomasnow Amoonguss Appletun Applin Arboliva Bayleef Bellossom Bellsprout Bonsly Bounsweet Brambleghast Bramblin Breloom Budew Bulbasaur Cacnea Cacturne Capsakid Carnivine Cherrim Cherubi Chikorita
Comfey Cottonee Cradily
Dartrix
Decidueye (Legends)
Decidueye
Dhelmise Dolliv Eldegoss Exeggcute Exeggutor (Island) Exeggutor Ferroseed Ferrothorn Flabťbť Flapple Floette Floragato Florges Fomantis Foongus Gloom Gossifleur Gourgeist Grookey

702  574  568  520 
364  355  370  369  341  024  343  330  600  332  345  345  361  334  022  346  346  348  375  349  349  024  245  351  606  034  035  035  327  340  357  371  372  371  352  352  232  369  232  038  233  354  355  342  357  320  036 

Grotle Hoppip Ivysaur Jumpluff Lileep Lilligant (High Mountain) Lilligant Lombre Lotad Ludicolo Lurantis Maractus Meganium
Meowscarada Morelull Nuzleaf Oddish Paras Parasect Petilil Phantump Pumpkaboo Rillaboom Roselia Roserade Rowlet Scovillain Seedot Serperior
Servine Shiftry Shiinotic Shroomish Skiploom Smoliv Snivy Snover Sprigatito Steenee Sudowoodo Sunflora Sunkern Tangela
Tangrowth
Thwackey Toedscool Toedscruel Torterra Trevenant Tropius Tsareena Turtwig
Venusaur

028  336  022  337  606  374  373  650  650  651  354  376  025 
039  358  338  342  117  117  373  318  320 
037  334  335  034  348  338 
031 
030  339  358  361  336  340  030  364  038  332 
600  366  366  367 
367 
036  405  405  029  318  376  333  028 
023 

Victreebel Vileplume Weepinbell Whimsicott
Human-like
Abra Alakazam Annihilape Armarouge Beheeyem Bisharp Braixen Buneary Cacnea Cacturne Ceruledge Charcadet Chesnaught
Chespin
Chimchar
Cinderace Clobbopus Conkeldurr Croagunk Delphox Drowzee Electabuzz Electivire Elekid Elgyem Emboar
Fennekin
Froakie
Frogadier Gallade Gardevoir Gothita Gothitelle Gothorita Grapploct Greninja Grimmsnarl Gurdurr Hariyama Hawlucha Hitmonchan Hitmonlee Hitmontop Hypno Illumise Impidimp Incineroar

806

331  343  330  351 
548  549  249  295  562  146  050  459  346  346  296  295  033  032  046  055  252  251  522  051  560  194  195  194  562  049  050  068  068  557  557  550  551  550  252  069  145  250  257  269  267  266  267  560  141  144  053 

This is all off right now and doesn't include new Scarlet and Violet expansion Pokťmon

Infernape Jynx Kadabra Kingambit Kirlia Litten Lopunny Lucario Machamp Machoke Machop Magby Magmar Magmortar Makuhita Mankey Medicham Meditite Mienfoo Mienshao Mime Jr. Monferno Morgrem Mr. Mime (Icy Mountain) Mr. Mime Mr. Rime Pancham Pangoro Pawniard Pignite Primeape Quilladin Raboot Ralts Riolu Sableye Sawk Scorbunny Smoochum Spinda Tepig Throh Timburr Torracat Toxel Toxicroak Toxtricity Tyrogue Volbeat
Mineral
Aegislash

047  Arctibax

424  Avalugg (Mountainous) 548  Avalugg 147  Baltoy

556  Baxcalibur

052  Beldum

459  Bergmite

263  Boldore 247  Bonsly 246  Bronzong

246  Bronzor 276  Burmy 276  Camerupt

277  Carbink

257  Carkol

248  Claydol

258  Coalossal

258  Cofagrigus

260  Copperajah

260  Crustle

410/565  Cryogonal

046  Cufant 144  Dachsbun

410  565  411  261  261  146  048  248  032  054  556  263  172  271  054  424 

Dhelmise Doublade
Duraludon Dwebble
Electrode (Antique) Electrode Falinks Ferroseed Ferrothorn Fidough Forretress
Frigibax Froslass Garbodor Garganacl Geodude (Iron-Rich) Geodude

514  Gholdengo

048  Gigalith

271  Gimmighoul

250  Glalie

052  Glimmet

212  Glimmora 522  Golem (Iron-Rich) 212  Golem

266  Golett 141  Golurk

Graveler (Iron-Rich)

Graveler 629  Grimer (Oil Polluted)

182  431  430  386 
183
624  430  590  600  632  632  132  286 
617  592  386  593  326  634  106 
434  634  238 
327  628 
641  106 
215  214  268  352  352  238  118 
182  433  539  589  584  582  635  591  635  432 
605 
605  585  583  395 
395  584  582  527 

Grimer Honedge Klang Klefki Klink Klinklang Koffing Lunatone Magcargo Magnemite Magneton Magnezone Metagross
Metang
Minior Mothim Muk (Oil Polluted) Muk Nacli Naclstack Nincada Ninjask Nosepass Numel Onix Orthworm Palossand Pineco Polteageist Porygon
Porygon-Z
Porygon2
Probopass Revavroom Roggenrola Rolycoly Runerigus Sandygast Shedinja Sinistea Slugma Snorunt Solrock Steelix Stonjourner
Sudowoodo Trubbish Unown Vanillish Vanillite Vanilluxe Varoom Voltorb (Antique)

525  628  630  642  630  631  542  619  292  196  196  197  625 
624  620  133  527  525  588  588  134  134  608  286  638  643  321  118  324  448 
449 
448 
608  640  590  592  406  321  135  324  292  432  619  638  621 
600  539  581  416  416  417  640  215 
807

Egg Group Index by Dungeon Marsh-ter

Index - Egg Group

Index - Egg Group

Egg Group Index by Dungeon Marsh-ter

This is all off right now and doesn't include new Scarlet and Violet expansion Pokťmon

Voltorb Weezing (Heavy Pollution) Weezing Wormadam (Plant Cloak) Wormadam (Sandy Cloak) Wormadam (Trash Cloak) Yamask (Stone Ruins) Yamask
Monster
Abomasnow Aggron Amaura Ampharos Aron Aurorus Avalugg (M) Avalugg Axew Bagon Bastiodon Bayleef Bergmite Blastoise Bulbasaur Charizard Charmander Charmeleon Chewtle Chikorita Cranidos Crocalor Croconaw Cubone Cyndaquil Deino Drampa Drednaw Druddigon Dudunsparce Dunsparce Exploud Feraligatr Flaaffy Fraxure Fuecoco Gabite Garchomp Gible Grotle Grovyle Hakamo-o

214  543  542  132  133  133  406  326 
364  623  594  199  622  594  431  430  174  176  611  024  430  059  022  041  040  040  664  024  602  056  060  278/388  042  142  506  664  192  465  465  455  061  198  174  056  184  185  184  028  026  188 

Haxorus Heliolisk Helioptile Hydreigon
Ivysaur Jangmo-o Kangaskhan Kecleon Krokorok Krookodile Kommo-o Lairon Lapras Larvitar Lickilicky
Lickitung Loudred Mareep Marowak (V) Marowak Marshtomp Meganium
Mudkip Munchlax Nidoking Nidoqueen Nidoran F Nidoran M Nidorina Nidorino Pupitar
Quilava Rampardos Rhydon Rhyhorn Rhyperior Salamence Salandit Salazzle Sandile Sceptile Shelgon Shieldon Skeledirge Slowbro (Spice Diet) Slowbro Slowking (Spice Diet) Slowking Slowpoke (Spice Diet) Slowpoke Snorlax Snover

175  209  209  143 
022
188 
508 
509  380  381  189  622  715 
586 
473 
473  454  198  278  388  062 
025 
062 
477  519  517  516  518  516  518  586 
042 
602  378  378  379  177  531  531  380  027 
176 
611 
057  544  708  545  709  544  708  477  364 

Squirtle Swampert Torkoal Torterra Totodile Toxel Toxtricity Treecko Tropius Turtonator Turtwig Typhlosion (Legends) Typhlosion Tyranitar Tyrantrum Tyrunt Venusaur Wartortle Whismur Zweilous
Water 1
Alomomola Araquanid Azumarill Azurill Barbaracle Bellibolt Bibarel Bidoof Binacle Blastoise Brionne Buizel Carracosta Chewtle Clamperl Clauncher Clawitzer Clobbopus Clodsire Corphish Corsola (DS) Corsola Cramorant Crawdaunt Croagunk Croconaw Cursola Delibird Dewgong Dewott

808

058  063  298  029  060  212  212  026  376  299  028  043  043  587  612  612  023  058  454  142 
710  670  647  646  599  211  458  458  599  059  070  661  697  664  706  667  667  252  540  669  312  713  304  669  522  060  312  435  690  066 

Dewpider Dragalge Dragonair Dragonite Dratini Drednaw Drizzile Ducklett Eiscue Empoleon Feebas Feraligatr Floatzel Froakie Frogadier Gastrodon Golduck Gorebyss Grapploct Greninja Horsea Huntail Inkay Inteleon Kabuto Kabutops Kilowattrel Kingdra Lapras Lombre Lotad Ludicolo Malamar Mantine Mantyke Mareanie Marill Marshtomp Masquerain Milotic Mudkip Octillery Omanyte Omastar Oshawott Palpitoad Pelipper Pincurchin Piplup Politoed Poliwag Poliwhirl

This is all off right now and doesn't include new Scarlet and Violet expansion Pokťmon

670  536  178  179 
178  664  072  672  435  065 
673  061  661  068  068  693  687  707  252  069  648  706  152  073  603 
603  217  649  715  650  650  651  152  684  684  530  646  062  124  673  062  688  609  609 
066  652  702  225  064  655  654  654 

Poliwrath Popplio Primarina Prinplup Psyduck Pyukumuku Quagsire Quaquaval Quaxly Quaxwell Relicanth Remoraid Samurott (Legends) Samurott Seadra Sealeo Seel Seismitoad Shellos Skrelp Slowbro (Spice Diet) Slowbro Slowking (Spice Diet) Slowking Slowpoke (Spice Diet) Slowpoke Sobble Spheal Squirtle Stunfisk (Iron-Rich) Stunfisk Surskit Swampert Swanna Tadbulb Tirtouga Totodile Toxapex Toxicroak Tympole Veluza Walrein Wartortle Wattrel Wingull Wooper (High Ground) Wooper
Water 2
Alomomola Arrokuda Barboach

655  070  071  064  687  716  703  075  074  74  718  688  067  067  648  412  690  653  693  536  544  708  545  709  544  708  072  412  058  409  408  124  063  672  211  697  060  530  522  652  719  413  058  217  702  540  703 
710  657  658 

Barraskewda Basculegion Basculin Bruxish Carvanha Chinchou Dondozo Eelektrik Eelektross Finizen Finneon Goldeen Gyarados Inkay Lanturn Lumineon Luvdisc Magikarp Malamar Mantine Mantyke Octillery Overqwil Palafin Qwilfish (Dark Waters) Qwilfish Relicanth Remoraid Seaking Sharpedo Tatsugiri Tynamo Veluza Wailmer Wailord Whiscash Wiglett Wishiwashi Wugtrio
Water 3
Anorith Archen Archeops
Armaldo Barbaracle Binacle Carracosta Clamperl Clauncher Clawitzer Cloyster Corphish

657  660  660  712  663  666  714  204  205  675  676  679  682  152  666  676  716  682  152  684  684  688  162  675  162  717  718  688  679  663  193  204  719  699  699  658  700  720  700 
596  597  597  596  599  599  697  706  667  667  691  669 
809

Egg Group Index by Dungeon Marsh-ter

Index - Egg Group

Egg Group Index by Dungeon Marsh-ter

This is all off right now and doesn't include new Scarlet and Violet expansion Pokťmon

Corsola (Dead Seas) Corsola Crabominable Crabrawler Cradily Crawdaunt Cursola Drapion Frillish Golisopod Goodra (Iron-Rich)
Goodra
Goomy Gorebyss Huntail Jellicent Kabuto
Kabutops Kingler Klawf Krabby Lileep Mareanie Omanyte
Omastar Pyukumuku Shellder Skorupi Sliggoo (Iron-Rich)
Sliggoo Starmie Staryu Tentacool Tentacruel Tirtouga Toxapex Wimpod

312  713  254  254  606  669  312  534  678  129  627 
186 
187/626  707  706  678  603 
603  681  617  681  606  530  609 
609  716  691  534  626 
186  694  694  696  696  697  530  129 

Index - Egg Group

810

811

At its core, Pokťmon Tabletop Adventures is about realizing your Pokťmon adventures that aren't found in other Pokťmon media. Part of this is making sure everyone's having fun. Tabletop offers an unlimited amount of experiences and scenarios, but that doesn't always mean any player will enjoy any given scenario.
Game Masters: Always make sure players know what kind of things to expect in a campaign in terms of any less friendly themes and do a good job of stopping poor player behavior that's directly affecting other players' ability to enjoy gameplay.
Players: Know what kind of game you're getting into, try to make sure you're not stepping over any lines, and be aware of whether or not you're making yourself the center of attention. There are other players, including the GM, so it's important to give everyone a voice and not cut off other players with too many interruptions.
Whenever there's any problem talk it out. Together, tabletop games can stay fun and keep going. When players and game masters only treat each other as opponents, sidekicks, or obstacles instead of treating each other as people, games fall apart and end.
812

Thank you, Trainers
Pokťmon: Tabletop Adventures has come very far from its original threads on traditional games. Many people have helped along the way and I want to be sure to thank them.

PTA3 Editors: #typos-grammar-and-fix-reports 23456 Dungeon Marsh-ter

Credits:
Thank you, contributors and writers from any point of Pokťmon: Tabletop Adventure's works:

Sevyrr Sol Talian

Anise, Aeros, Castfromhp, Cloudjsh7, DamienLunas, Dirty, Garlye, Glipp, Gorbash, Halfwing, Happymancer, KamenWriter, OlympusMons, Paradox, Peewah, P-Wing, Sir Cucumber, TehOwnerer, Webmetz, Zoofman, #pokeymans

TheProfessor

Special thanks to theworldofpokemon.com for many blurbs and data used in PTA3's Pokťdex. Give them a look, they're an amazing resource for tabletop Pokťmon.

Thanks to the original Alpha testers:

Click

LittleBear

Darakian

Nextimaginaut

Dirty

Popook88

DotDotDot Pwah

EatsEverything P-Wing

Glipp

Sir cucumber

Sources of Information:

AskJeeves

Twitter

Google

Wikipedia

Serebii

Yahoo

Thank you to the players who love to play tabletop and who love Pokťmon. Thank you to everyone who makes the actual Pokťmon games, those are rad. Thank you to my friends who help keep me relaxed and sane between sessions. Thank you to my partner, who helps in many ways they don't even know and who I love greatly. Stay safe out in the tall grass, trainers.
- Dr. Mr. Stark

Images found throughout were made by and are property of The Pokťmon Company and various partners. If any of these images are actually fanart and are owned by you and would like them removed from future updates, please let us know. Tried to not use fanart to avoid that problem≠ I'm sorry if something slipped through.

Join the PTA3 Discord Server: https://discord.gg/UgWJaH8

Pokťmon is owned by The Pokťmon Company - Nintendo, Game Freak, and Creatures. Not anyone related to making Pokťmon: Tabletop Adventures. Give us a break, we're just playing some tabletop. This game was made for free distribution. NOT FOR SALE
813

The Pokťdex contains a complete list of all Pokťmon that trainers may find and train within the world of Pokťmon Tabletop Adventures 3. This guide is used by both Players and Game Masters while managing their Pokťmon. The Pokťmon within are from the entirety of the Pokťmon franchise's history, but excludes Legendary Pokťmon.
To play, you'll also need... Player's Handbook
For even more, check out... Game Master's Guide Player's Handbook 2 Game Master's Screen

V.1.6 27.06.2024

DrMrStark

